<<<<<<< HEAD
esxcli network nic list
esxcli network nic get -n vmnic0
esxcli software vib list | grep gb

[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic get -n vmnic2
   Advertised Auto Negotiation: true
   Advertised Link Modes: Auto, 1000BaseT/Full, 100BaseT/Full, 100BaseT/Half, 10BaseT/Full, 10BaseT/Half
   Auto Negotiation: true
   Backing DPUId: N/A
   Cable Type: Twisted Pair
   Current Message Level: 0
   Driver Info:
         Bus Info: 0000:01:00:0
         Driver: igbn
         Firmware Version: 1.67.0:0x800010e0:22.5.7
         Version: 1.12.0.0
   Link Detected: false
   Link Status: Down
   Name: vmnic2
   PHYAddress: 0
   Pause Autonegotiate: true
   Pause RX: true
   Pause TX: true
   Supported Ports: TP
   Supports Auto Negotiation: true
   Supports Pause: true
   Supports Wakeon: false
   Transceiver: internal
   Virtual Address: 00:50:56:5c:60:09
   Wakeon: None
   
[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic get -n vmnic5
   Advertised Auto Negotiation: true
   Advertised Link Modes: Auto, 10000BaseSR/Full
   Auto Negotiation: true
   Backing DPUId: N/A
   Cable Type: FIBRE
   Current Message Level: 0
   Driver Info:
         Bus Info: 0000:18:00:1
         Driver: i40en
         Firmware Version: 9.40 0x8000e9c2 22.5.7
         Version: 2.8.4.0
   Link Detected: true
   Link Status: Up
   Name: vmnic5
   PHYAddress: 0
   Pause Autonegotiate: false
   Pause RX: true
   Pause TX: true
   Supported Ports: FIBRE
   Supports Auto Negotiation: true
   Supports Pause: true
   Supports Wakeon: false
   Transceiver:
   Virtual Address: 00:50:56:59:df:98
   Wakeon: None
   
[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic list
Name    PCI Device    Driver  Admin Status  Link Status  Speed  Duplex  MAC Address         MTU  Description
------  ------------  ------  ------------  -----------  -----  ------  -----------------  ----  -----------
vmnic2  0000:01:00.0  igbn    Up            Down             0  Half    78:ac:44:84:e5:3c  1500  Intel(R) I350 Gigabit Network Connection
vmnic3  0000:01:00.1  igbn    Up            Down             0  Half    78:ac:44:84:e5:3d  1500  Intel(R) I350 Gigabit Network Connection
vmnic4  0000:18:00.0  i40en   Up            Up           10000  Full    6c:fe:54:24:f9:90  1500  Intel(R) Ethernet Controller X710 for 10GbE SFP+
vmnic5  0000:18:00.1  i40en   Up            Up           10000  Full    6c:fe:54:24:f9:91  1500  Intel(R) Ethernet Controller X710 for 10GbE SFP+

[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic get -n vmnic2


N/W Data Cable modfication for DELL PowerEdge 740 for 1 server:

Total 4 ports conneted with (1ENT+1MFG & 1ENT+1MFG)
Now we have to segregate like 
2NIC slots for ENT(1Gig)
2PCIe slots for MFG(10Gig)


network.firewall.ruleset                            list              List the rulesets in
                                                                      firewall.
network.firewall.ruleset.rule                       list              List the rules of each
                                                                      ruleset in firewall.
network.firewall.ruleset                            set               Set firewall ruleset
                                                                      status (allowedAll flag
                                                                      and enabled status).
network.firewall                                    set               Set firewall enabled
                                                                      status and default action.
network.firewall                                    unload            Allow unload firewall
                                                                      module.
network.ip.connection                               list              List active TCP/IP
                                                                      connections
network.ip.dns.search                               add               Add a search domain to the
                                                                      list of domains to be
                                                                      searched when trying to
                                                                      resolve an host name on
                                                                      the ESXi host.
network.ip.dns.search                               list              List the search domains
                                                                      currently configured on
                                                                      the ESXi host in the order
                                                                      in which they will be used
                                                                      when searching.
network.ip.dns.search                               remove            Remove a search domain
                                                                      from the list of domains
                                                                      to be searched when trying
                                                                      to resolve an host name on
                                                                      the ESXi host.
network.ip.dns.server                               add               Add a new DNS server to
                                                                      the end of the list of DNS      15 esxcli network ip connection list
                                                                                                      16 esxcli network ip interface ipv4 address list
0  esxcli network nic list
   1 esxcli network nic list
   2 esxcli system module list | grep igbn
   3 tail -f /var/log/vmkernel.log | grep -i eth
   4 esxcli system module list | grep igbn
   5 lspci -vv | grep -i eth
   6 esxcli system module info --module=igbn
   7 esxcli system module get --module igbn
   8 history

                                                                      servers to use for this
                                                                      ESXi host.
network.ip.dns.server                               list              Print a list of the DNS
                                                                      server currently
                                                                      configured on the system
                                                                      in the order in which they
                                                                      will be used.
network.ip.dns.server                               remove            Remove a DNS server from
                                                                      the list of DNS servers to
                                                                      use for this ESXi host.
network.ip                                          get               Get global IP settings
network.ip.hosts                                    add               Add association of IP
                                                                      addresses with host names.
network.ip.hosts                                    list              List the user specified
                                                                      associations of IP
                                                                      addresses with host names.
network.ip.hosts                                    remove            Remove association of IP
                                                                      addresses with host names.
network.ip.interface                                add               Add a new VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv4.address                   list              List the IPv4 addresses
                                                                      assigned to VMkernel
                                                                      network interfaces.
network.ip.interface.ipv4                           get               List the IPv4 addresses
                                                                      assigned to VMkernel
                                                                      network interfaces.
network.ip.interface.ipv4                           set               Configure IPv4 setting for
                                                                      a given VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv6.address                   add               Add a static IPv6 address
                                                                      to a given VMkernel
                                                                      network interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv6.address                   list              This command will list all
                                                                      of the IPv6 addresses
                                                                      currently assigned to the
                                                                      system
network.ip.interface.ipv6.address                   remove            Remove an IPv6 address
                                                                      from a given VMkernel
                                                                      network interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv6                           get               Get IPv6 settings for
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interfaces. This does not
                                                                      include the IPv6 addresses
                                                                      which can be found in the
                                                                      "address list" command.
network.ip.interface.ipv6                           set               Configure IPv6 settings
                                                                      for a given VMkernel
                                                                      network interface.
network.ip.interface                                list              This command will list the
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interfaces currently known
                                                                      to the system.
network.ip.interface                                remove            Remove a VMkernel network
                                                                      interface from the ESXi
                                                                      host. A VMKernel network
                                                                      interface can be uniquely
                                                                      specified by --interface-
                                                                      name or --portgroup-name
                                                                      or --dvs-name/--dvport-id.
                                                                      i.e. Providing its name or
                                                                      its connection point are
                                                                      two ways to uniquely
                                                                      specify a VMKernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface                                set               This command sets the
                                                                      enabled status and MTU
                                                                      size of a given IP
                                                                      interface
network.ip.interface.tag                            add               Adds a tag on a given
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interface. Supported tags
                                                                      are: Management, VMotion,
                                                                      faultToleranceLogging,
                                                                      vSphereReplication,
                                                                      vSphereReplicationNFC,
                                                                      vSphereProvisioning, VSAN,
                                                                      VSANWitness,
                                                                      vSphereBackupNFC,
                                                                      PrecisionTimeProtocol,
                                                                      NVMeTCP, NVMeRDMA
network.ip.interface.tag                            get               Gets the tags set on the
                                                                      given VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface.tag                            remove            Removes a tag on a given
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.ipsec.sa                                 add               Add a Security
                                                                      Association.
network.ip.ipsec.sa                                 list              List configured Security
                                                                      Associations
network.ip.ipsec.sa                                 remove            Operation to remove
                                                                      Security Association(s)
network.ip.ipsec.sp                                 add               Add a Security Policy.
network.ip.ipsec.sp                                 list              List configured Security
                                                                      Policys
network.ip.ipsec.sp                                 remove            Operation to remove
                                                                      Security Policy
network.ip.neighbor                                 list              List ARP table entries
network.ip.neighbor                                 remove            Remove ARP table entries
network.ip.netstack                                 add               Add a new Netstack
                                                                      Instance.
network.ip.netstack                                 get               Get runtime/configuration
                                                                      settings for a given
                                                                      Netstack Instance.
network.ip.netstack                                 list              This command will list the
                                                                      VMkernel Netstack
                                                                      instances currently known
                                                                      to the system.
network.ip.netstack                                 remove            Remove a new Netstack
                                                                      Instance.
network.ip.netstack                                 set               Configure settings for a
                                                                      given Netstack Instance.
network.ip.route.ipv4                               add               Add IPv4 route to the
                                                                      VMkernel.
network.ip.route.ipv4                               list              List configured IPv4
                                                                      routes
network.ip.route.ipv4                               remove            Remove IPv4 route
network.ip.route.ipv6                               add               Add IPv6 route to the
                                                                      VMkernel.
network.ip.route.ipv6                               list              List configured IPv6
                                                                      routes
network.ip.route.ipv6                               remove            Remove IPv6 route from the
                                                                      VMkernel
network.ip                                          set               Update global IP settings
network.multicast.group                             list              List all the multicast
                                                                      group members.
network.nic.attachment                              add               Attach one uplink as a
                                                                      branch to a trunk uplink
                                                                      with specified VLAN ID.
network.nic.attachment                              list              Show uplink attachment
                                                                      information.
network.nic.attachment                              remove            Detach a branch uplink
                                                                      from its trunk.
network.nic.coalesce                                get               Get coalesce parameters
network.nic.coalesce.high                           get               Get information about the
                                                                      behavior of a NIC when it
                                                                      sends or receives packets
                                                                      at high packet rate.
network.nic.coalesce.high                           set               Set parameters to control
                                                                      the behavior of a NIC when
                                                                      it sends or receives
                                                                      packets at high packet
                                                                      rate.
network.nic.coalesce.low                            get               Get information about the
                                                                      behavior of a NIC when it
                                                                      sends or receives packets
                                                                      at low packet rate.
network.nic.coalesce.low                            set               Set parameters to control
                                                                      the behavior of a NIC when
                                                                      it sends or receives
                                                                      packets at low packet
                                                                      rate.
network.nic.coalesce                                set               Set coalesce parameters on
                                                                      a nic
network.nic.cso                                     get               Get checksum offload
                                                                      settings
network.nic.cso                                     set               Set checksum offload
                                                                      settings on a nic, which
                                                                      is not persistent.
network.nic.dcb.status                              get               Get the DCB information
                                                                      for a NIC.
network.nic                                         down              Bring down the specified
                                                                      network device.
network.nic.eeprom                                  change            Change EEPROM on a nic
network.nic.eeprom                                  dump              Dump device EEPROM
network.nic                                         get               Get the generic
                                                                      configuration of a network
                                                                      device
network.nic.hwCap.activated                         list              List activated hardware
                                                                      capabilities of physical
                                                                      NICs.
network.nic.hwCap.supported                         list              List supported hardware
                                                                      capabilities of physical
                                                                      NICs.
network.nic                                         list              This command will list the
                                                                      Physical NICs currently
                                                                      installed and loaded on
                                                                      the system.
network.nic.negotiate                               restart           Restart N-Way negotiation
                                                                      on a nic
network.nic.pauseParams                             list              List pause parameters of
                                                                      all NICs
network.nic.pauseParams                             set               Set pause parameters for a
                                                                      NIC
network.nic.queue.count                             get               Get netqueue count on a
                                                                      nic
network.nic.queue.count                             set               Set number of netqueues on
                                                                      a nic
network.nic.queue.filterclass                       list              List the netqueue
                                                                      supported filterclass of
                                                                      all physical NICs
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system.
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer                      list              List the load balancer
                                                                      settings of all the
                                                                      installed and loaded
                                                                      physical NICs.
                                                                      (S:supported,
                                                                      U:unsupported, N:not-
                                                                      applicable, A:allowed,
                                                                      D:disallowed).
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.plugin               list              Details of netqueue
                                                                      balancer plugins on all
                                                                      physical NICs currently
                                                                      installed and loaded on
                                                                      the system
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.plugin               set               Enable/disable netqueue
                                                                      balancer plugin on a NIC
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer                      set               Enable/disable netqueue
                                                                      load balancer setting on a
                                                                      NIC.
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.state                list              Netqueue balancer state of
                                                                      all physical NICs
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.state                set               Enable/disable netqueue
                                                                      balancer on a NIC
network.nic.register                                dump              Dump device registers
network.nic.ring.current                            get               Get current RX/TX ring
                                                                      buffer parameters of a NIC
network.nic.ring.current                            set               Set current RX/TX ring
                                                                      buffer parameters of a NIC
network.nic.ring.preset                             get               Get preset maximums for
                                                                      RX/TX ring buffer
                                                                      parameters of a NIC.
network.nic.selftest                                run               Run self test
network.nic                                         set               Set the general options
                                                                      for the specified ethernet
                                                                      device.
network.nic.sg                                      get               Get scatter-gather
                                                                      settings
network.nic.sg                                      set               Set scatter-gatter
                                                                      settings on a nic, which
                                                                      is not persistent.
network.nic.software                                list              List software simulation
                                                                      settings of physical NICs
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system.
network.nic.software                                set               Enable and disable
                                                                      software simulation
                                                                      settings on a NIC.
network.nic.stats                                   get               Get NIC statistics for a
                                                                      given interface.
network.nic.tso                                     get               Get TCP segmentation
                                                                      offload settings
network.nic.tso                                     set               Set TCP segmentation
                                                                      offload settings on a nic,
                                                                      which is not persistent.
network.nic                                         up                Bring up the specified
                                                                      network device.
network.nic.vlan.stats                              get               List VLAN statistics for
                                                                      active VLAN's on the NIC.
network.nic.vlan.stats                              set               Enable/disable VLAN
                                                                      statistics collection on
                                                                      the NIC.
network.port.filter.stats                           get               Filter statistics for a
                                                                      given port.
network.port.stats                                  get               Packet statistics for a
                                                                      given port.
network.sriovnic                                    list              This command will list the
                                                                      SRIOV Enabled NICs (PFs)
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system.
network.sriovnic.vf                                 list              Get the generic
                                                                      configuration of VFs for
                                                                      SRIOV NIC.
network.sriovnic.vf                                 stats             Get statistics for given
                                                                      VF of a SRIOV NIC.
network.vm                                          list              List networking
                                                                      information for the VM's
                                                                      that have active ports.
network.vm.port                                     list              List of active ports for a
                                                                      given VM.
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.config              get               Get LACP configuration on
                                                                      DVS
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.stats               get               Get LACP stats on DVS
                                                                      uplinks
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.status              get               Get LACP status on DVS
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.timeout             set               Set long/short timeout for
                                                                      vmnics in one LACP LAG
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware                          list              List the VMware vSphere
                                                                      Distributed Switch
                                                                      currently configured on
                                                                      the ESXi host.
network.vswitch.standard                            add               Add a new virtual switch
                                                                      to the ESXi networking
                                                                      system.
network.vswitch.standard                            list              List the virtual switches
                                                                      current on the ESXi host.
network.vswitch.standard.policy.failover            get               Get the failover policy
                                                                      settings governing the
                                                                      given virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.policy.failover            set               Configure the Failover
                                                                      policy for a virtual
                                                                      switch.
network.vswitch.standard.policy.security            get               Get the Security Policy
                                                                      governing the given
                                                                      virtual switch.
network.vswitch.standard.policy.security            set               Set the security policy
                                                                      for a given virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.policy.shaping             get               Get the shaping policy
                                                                      settings for the given
                                                                      virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.policy.shaping             set               Set the shaping policy
                                                                      settings for the given
                                                                      virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  add               Allows the addition of a
                                                                      standard port group to a
                                                                      virtual switch.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  list              List all of the port
                                                                      groups currently on the
                                                                      system.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.failover  get               Get the network failover
                                                                      policy settings governing
                                                                      the given port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.failover  set               Configure the Failover
                                                                      policy for a port group.
                                                                      These setting may
                                                                      potentially override
                                                                      virtual switch settings.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.security  get               Get the Security Policy
                                                                      governing the given port
                                                                      group.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.security  set               Set the security policy
                                                                      for a given port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.shaping   get               Get the network shaping
                                                                      policy settings governing
                                                                      the given port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.shaping   set               Set the shaping policy
                                                                      settings for the given
                                                                      port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  remove            Remove a port group from
                                                                      the given virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  set               Set the vlan id for the
                                                                      given port group
network.vswitch.standard                            remove            Remove a virtual switch
                                                                      from the ESXi networking
                                                                      system.
network.vswitch.standard                            set               This command sets the MTU
                                                                      size and CDP status of a
                                                                      given virtual switch.
network.vswitch.standard.uplink                     add               Add an uplink to the given
                                                                      virtual switch. Note if
                                                                      this virtual switch has a
                                                                      NIC teaming policy
                                                                      assigned to it then the
                                                                      policy must also be
                                                                      modified to enable use of
                                                                      this uplink on this
                                                                      virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.uplink                     remove            Remove an uplink from the
                                                                      given virtual switch. Note
                                                                      if this virtual switch has
                                                                      a NIC teaming policy
                                                                      assigned to it then the
                                                                      policy must also be
                                                                      modified to disable use of
                                                                      this uplink on this
                                                                      virtual switch
nvme.adapter                                        list              List all NVMe adapters.
nvme.controller                                     identify          Get NVMe Identify
                                                                      Controller data (CNS 1h).
nvme.controller                                     list              List NVMe controllers.
nvme.device.config                                  list              List the configurable
                                                                      parameters for this plugin
nvme.device.config                                  set               Set the plugin's parameter
nvme.device.controller                              list              List all controllers on
                                                                      the device if namespace is
                                                                      not specified, otherwise
                                                                      list all controllers the
                                                                      namespace attached
nvme.device.feature.aec                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      async event configuration
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.aec                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      async event configuration
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.apst                            get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      autonomous power state
                                                                      transition information
nvme.device.feature.ar                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      arbitration information
nvme.device.feature.ar                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      arbitration information
nvme.device.feature                                 cap               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      supported capabilities
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.er                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      error recovery information
nvme.device.feature.er                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      error recovery information
nvme.device.feature                                 get               Get NVMe device feature
nvme.device.feature.hi                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      host identifier
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.hmb                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      host memory buffer
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.ic                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt coalescing
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.ic                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt coalescing
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.ivc                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt vector
                                                                      configuration information
nvme.device.feature.ivc                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt vector
                                                                      configuration information
nvme.device.feature.kat                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      keep alive timer
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.kat                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      keep alive timer
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.lba                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      LBA range type information
nvme.device.feature.nq                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      number of queue
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.pm                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      power management
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.pm                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      power management
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature                                 set               Set NVMe device feature
nvme.device.feature.spm                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      software progress marker
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.spm                             set               Set software progress
                                                                      marker feature
                                                                      information, will clear
                                                                      Pre-boot Software Load
                                                                      Count (PBSLC) to 0
nvme.device.feature.tt                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      temperature threshold
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.tt                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      temperature threshold
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.vwc                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      volatile write cache
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.vwc                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      volatile write cache
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.wa                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      write atomicity
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.wa                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      write atomicity
                                                                      information
nvme.device.firmware                                activate          Commit downloaded firmware
                                                                      image to a specific slot
nvme.device.firmware                                download          Download firmware image to
                                                                      the device
nvme.device                                         get               Get NVMe device
                                                                      information
nvme.device                                         list              List NVMe devices
                                                                      registered to VMware NVMe
                                                                      driver
nvme.device.log.error                               get               Get NVMe device error log
                                                                      information
nvme.device.log.fwslot                              get               Get NVMe device firmware
                                                                      slot log information
nvme.device.log                                     get               Get NVMe log page
nvme.device.log.persistentevent                     get               Get NVMe persistent event
                                                                      log
nvme.device.log.smart                               get               Get NVMe device SMART log
                                                                      information
nvme.device.log.telemetry.controller                get               Get NVMe telemetry
                                                                      controller-initiated data
nvme.device.log.telemetry.host                      get               Get NVMe telemetry host-
                                                                      initiated data
nvme.device.namespace                               attach            Attach namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               create            Create namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               delete            Delete namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               detach            Detach namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               format            Change namespace format
nvme.device.namespace                               get               Get nvme namespace
                                                                      information
nvme.device.namespace                               list              List namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.register                                get               Dump NVMe device registers
nvme.device.timeout                                 get               Get timeout value of IO
                                                                      timeout checker
nvme.device.timeout                                 set               Set timeout value for IO
                                                                      timeout checker
nvme.driver.loglevel                                set               Set NVMe driver log level
                                                                      and debug level
nvme.fabrics                                        connect           Connect to an NVMe
                                                                      controller on a specified
                                                                      target through an adapter.
nvme.fabrics.connection                             delete            Delete persistent NVMe
                                                                      over Fabrics connection
                                                                      entries. Reboot required
                                                                      for settings to take
                                                                      effect.
nvme.fabrics.connection                             list              List all persistent NVMe
                                                                      over Fabrics connection
                                                                      entries.
nvme.fabrics                                        disable           Disable NVMe over Fabrics
                                                                      for a transport protocol.
nvme.fabrics                                        disconnect        Disconnect specified NVMe
                                                                      controller(s) on the
                                                                      specified NVMe adapter.
nvme.fabrics                                        discover          Discover NVMe controllers
                                                                      on the specified target
                                                                      port through the specified
                                                                      NVMe adapter and list all
                                                                      of them.
nvme.fabrics                                        enable            Enable NVMe over Fabrics
                                                                      for a transport protocol.
nvme.info                                           get               Get NVMe host information.
nvme.info                                           set               Set NVMe host information.
nvme.namespace                                      identify          Get NVMe Identify
                                                                      Namespace data (CNS 0h).
nvme.namespace                                      list              List all NVMe namespaces.
rdma.device                                         list              List the logical RDMA
                                                                      devices currently
                                                                      registered on the system.
rdma.device.protocol                                list              List the enabled RDMA
                                                                      protocols.
rdma.device.stats                                   get               Get statistics for a given
                                                                      RDMA device.
rdma.device.vmknic                                  list              List the vmknics
                                                                      associated with RDMA
                                                                      devices.
rdma.iser                                           add               Add an iSER device to
                                                                      enable iser module driver.
rdma.iser                                           delete            Delete an iser logical
                                                                      device.
rdma.iser.params                                    set               Change iSER kernel driver
                                                                      settings. (This operation
                                                                      is deprecated.)
sched.reliablemem                                   get               Check if the system is
                                                                      currently aware of
                                                                      reliable memory.
sched.swap.system                                   get               Get current state of the
                                                                      options of the system-wide
                                                                      shared swap space.
sched.swap.system                                   set               Change the configuration
                                                                      of system-wide shared swap
                                                                      space.
software.acceptance                                 get               Gets the host acceptance
                                                                      level. This controls what
                                                                      VIBs will be allowed on a
                                                                      host.
software.acceptance                                 set               Sets the host acceptance
                                                                      level. This controls what
                                                                      VIBs will be allowed on a
                                                                      host.
software.addon                                      get               Display the installed
                                                                      Addon on the host and the
                                                                      managed DPU(s).
software                                            apply             Applies a complete image
                                                                      with a software spec that
                                                                      specifies base image,
                                                                      addon and components to
                                                                      install on the host.
software.baseimage                                  get               Display the installed
                                                                      baseimage on the host.
software.component                                  apply             Installs Component
                                                                      packages from a depot.
                                                                      Components may be
                                                                      installed, upgraded.
                                                                      WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.component                                  get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more installed Components
                                                                      on host and managed
                                                                      DPU(s).
software.component                                  list              Lists the installed
                                                                      Component packages on the
                                                                      host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s).
software.component                                  remove            Removes components from
                                                                      the host. WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.component.signature                        verify            Verifies the signatures of
                                                                      installed Components on
                                                                      the host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s) and displays the
                                                                      name, version, vendor,
                                                                      acceptance level and the
                                                                      result of signature
                                                                      verification for each of
                                                                      them.
software.component.vib                              list              List VIBs in an installed
                                                                      Component on the host and
                                                                      the managed DPU(s).
software.profile                                    get               Display the installed
                                                                      image profile on host and
                                                                      managed DPU(s).
software.profile                                    install           Installs or applies an
                                                                      image profile from a depot
                                                                      to this host. This command
                                                                      completely replaces the
                                                                      installed image with the
                                                                      image defined by the new
                                                                      image profile, and may
                                                                      result in the loss of
                                                                      installed VIBs. The common
                                                                      vibs between host and
                                                                      image profile will be
                                                                      skipped. To preserve
                                                                      installed VIBs, use
                                                                      profile update instead.
                                                                      WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.profile                                    update            Updates the host with VIBs
                                                                      from an image profile in a
                                                                      depot. Installed VIBs may
                                                                      be upgraded (or downgraded
                                                                      if --allow-downgrades is
                                                                      specified), but they will
                                                                      not be removed. Any VIBs
                                                                      in the image profile which
                                                                      are not related to any
                                                                      installed VIBs will be
                                                                      added to the host.
                                                                      WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.profile                                    validate          Validates the current
                                                                      image profile on the host
                                                                      and managed DPU(s) against
                                                                      an image profile in a
                                                                      depot.
software.sources.addon                              get               Display details about
                                                                      Addons in the depots.
software.sources.addon                              list              List all Addons in the
                                                                      depots.
software.sources.baseimage                          get               Display details about a
                                                                      Base Image from the depot.
software.sources.baseimage                          list              List all the Base Images
                                                                      in a depot.
software.sources.component                          get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more Components in the
                                                                      depot
software.sources.component                          list              List all the Components
                                                                      from depots.
software.sources.component.vib                      list              List VIB packages in the
                                                                      specified Component in a
                                                                      depot.
software.sources.profile                            get               Display details about an
                                                                      image profile from the
                                                                      depot.
software.sources.profile                            list              List all the image
                                                                      profiles in a depot.
software.sources.vib                                get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more VIB packages in the
                                                                      depot
software.sources.vib                                list              List all the VIBs from
                                                                      depots.
software.vib                                        get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more installed VIBs on the
                                                                      host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s).
software.vib                                        install           Installs VIB packages from
                                                                      a URL or depot. VIBs may
                                                                      be installed, upgraded, or
                                                                      downgraded. WARNING: If
                                                                      your installation requires
                                                                      a reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.vib                                        list              Lists the installed VIB
                                                                      packages on the host and
                                                                      the managed DPU(s).
software.vib                                        remove            Removes VIB packages from
                                                                      the host. WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.vib.signature                              verify            Verifies the signatures of
                                                                      installed VIB packages on
                                                                      the host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s) and displays the
                                                                      name, version, vendor,
                                                                      acceptance level and the
                                                                      result of signature
                                                                      verification for each of
                                                                      them
software.vib                                        update            Update installed VIBs to
                                                                      newer VIB packages. No new
                                                                      VIBs will be installed,
                                                                      only updates. WARNING: If
                                                                      your installation requires
                                                                      a reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
storage.core.adapter.capabilities                   list              List the capabilities of
                                                                      the SCSI HBAs in the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.adapter.device                         list              List the devices
                                                                      associated with HBAs.
storage.core.adapter                                list              List all the SCSI Host Bus
                                                                      Adapters on the system.
storage.core.adapter                                rescan            Rescan SCSI HBAs to search
                                                                      for new Devices, remove
                                                                      DEAD paths and update path
                                                                      state. This operation will
                                                                      also run an claim
                                                                      operation equivalent to
                                                                      the claimrule run command
                                                                      and a filesystem rescan.
storage.core.adapter.stats                          get               List the SCSI stats for
                                                                      the SCSI Host Bus Adapters
                                                                      in the system.
storage.core.claiming                               autoclaim         Control the automatic PSA
                                                                      (path/device) claiming
                                                                      code allowing the
                                                                      disabling of the automatic
                                                                      claiming process or re-
                                                                      enabling of the claiming
                                                                      process if it was
                                                                      previously disabled. By
                                                                      default the automatic PSA
                                                                      claiming process is on and
                                                                      should not be disabled by
                                                                      users unless specifically
                                                                      instructed to do so.
storage.core.claiming                               reclaim            Attempt to unclaim all
                                                                      paths to a device and then
                                                                      run the loaded claimrules
                                                                      on each of the paths
                                                                      unclaimed to attempt to
                                                                      reclaim them.
storage.core.claiming                               unclaim           1) Unclaim a path or set
                                                                      of paths, disassociating
                                                                      them from a PSA plugin.
                                                                      NOTES:  It is normal for
                                                                      path claiming to fail
                                                                      especially when unclaiming
                                                                      by plugin or adapter. Only
                                                                      inactive paths with no I/O
                                                                      will be able to be
                                                                      unclaimed. Typically the
                                                                      ESXi USB partition and
                                                                      devices with VMFS volumes
                                                                      on them will not be
                                                                      unclaimable. Also NOTE
                                                                      unclaiming will not
                                                                      persist and periodic path
                                                                      claiming will reclaim
                                                                      these paths in the near
                                                                      future unless claim rules
                                                                      are configured to mask the
                                                                      path. 2) Detach a (set of)
                                                                      filter(s) from one or more
                                                                      devices.
storage.core.claimrule                              add               Add a claimrule to the set
                                                                      of claimrules on the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.claimrule                              convert           Convert ESX 3.x style
                                                                      /adv/Disk/MaskLUNs LUN
                                                                      masks to Claim Rule
                                                                      format. WARNING: This
                                                                      conversion will not work
                                                                      for all input MaskLUNs
                                                                      variations! Please inspect
                                                                      the list of generated
                                                                      claim rules carefuly, then
                                                                      if the suggested LUN mask
                                                                      claim rules are correct
                                                                      use the --commit parameter
                                                                      to write the list to the
                                                                      config file.
storage.core.claimrule                              list              List all the claimrules on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.claimrule                              load              Load path claiming rules
                                                                      from config file into the
                                                                      VMkernel.
storage.core.claimrule                              move              Move a claimrule from one
                                                                      rule id to another
storage.core.claimrule                              remove            Delete a claimrule to the
                                                                      set of claimrules on the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.claimrule                              run               Execute path claiming
                                                                      rules.
storage.core.device.capacity                        list              List capacity information
                                                                      for the known storage
                                                                      devices.
storage.core.device.detached                        list              Lists all devices that
                                                                      were detached manually by
                                                                      changing their state on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.device.detached                        remove            Provide control to allow a
                                                                      user to remove Detached
                                                                      devices from the
                                                                      persistent detached device
                                                                      list.
storage.core.device.inquirycache                    list              List inquiry cache
                                                                      information for the known
                                                                      storage devices.
storage.core.device.inquirycache                    set               Manipulate inquiry cache
                                                                      settings of storage
                                                                      devices.
storage.core.device.latencythreshold                list              List latency sensitive
                                                                      threshold for the known
                                                                      storage devices.
storage.core.device.latencythreshold                set               Set latency sensitive
                                                                      threshold for devices.
                                                                      This option is applicable
                                                                      only for devices claimed
                                                                      by MPPs that support
                                                                      fastpath. The device(s)
                                                                      can be selected based on
                                                                      the mutually exclusive
                                                                      parameters device name,
                                                                      vendor/model, NVMe
                                                                      controller model (For NVMe
                                                                      devices), PCIe vendor
                                                                      ID/PCIe sub vendor ID. See
                                                                      the examples for more
                                                                      details.
storage.core.device                                 list              List the devices currently
                                                                      registered with the PSA.
storage.core.device.partition                       list              For a given device list
                                                                      all of the partitions
storage.core.device.partition                       showguid          For a given device list
                                                                      the GUID for GPT
                                                                      partitions
storage.core.device.physical                        get               Get information about a
                                                                      physical storage device.
storage.core.device                                 purge             Removes storage devices
                                                                      which have not been seen
                                                                      in some time interval.
storage.core.device.raid                            list              List the physical devices
                                                                      that compose a given
                                                                      logical device.
storage.core.device                                 set               Modify the state of a
                                                                      storage device.
storage.core.device                                 setconfig         Set device configuration
storage.core.device.smart.daemon                    start             Enable smartd.
storage.core.device.smart.daemon.status             get               Get status of smartd.
storage.core.device.smart.daemon                    stop              Disable smartd.
storage.core.device.smart                           get               List Smart device
                                                                      parameters.
storage.core.device.smart.status                    get               Get status of SMART stats
                                                                      on a device.
storage.core.device.smart.status                    set               Enable or disable SMART
                                                                      stats gathering on a
                                                                      device.
storage.core.device.stats                           get               List the SCSI stats for
                                                                      SCSI Devices in the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.device.uidmap                          list              Get a mapping between a
                                                                      device's primary UID and
                                                                      the alternative UIDs for
                                                                      that device on the system.
storage.core.device.vaai.ats                        list              List the ATS VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.vaai.clone                      list              List the Clone VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.vaai.delete                     list              List the Delete VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.vaai.status                     get               List VAAI properties for
                                                                      devices currently
                                                                      registered with the PSA.
storage.core.device.vaai.status                     set               Enable/Disable VAAI
                                                                      operations on local SCSI
                                                                      disks. (NOTE: A request to
                                                                      enable an operation will
                                                                      take effect only if the
                                                                      underlying device supports
                                                                      the VAAI operation.)
storage.core.device.vaai.zero                       list              List the Zero VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.world                           list              Get a list of the worlds
                                                                      that are currently using
                                                                      devices on the ESX host.
storage.core.nvme.device                            list              List the NVMe devices
                                                                      currently registered with
                                                                      the PSA.
storage.core.nvme.path                              list              List all the NVMe paths on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.path                                   list              List all the storage paths
                                                                      on the system.
storage.core.path                                   set               Provide control to allow a
                                                                      user to modify a single
                                                                      path's state. This
                                                                      efffectively allows a user
                                                                      to enable or disable
                                                                      storage paths. The user is
                                                                      not able to change the
                                                                      full range of path states,
                                                                      but can toggle between
                                                                      'active' and 'off'. Please
                                                                      NOTE changing the Path
                                                                      state on any path that is
                                                                      the only path to a given
                                                                      device is likely to fail.
                                                                      The VMkernel will not
                                                                      change the path's state if
                                                                      changing the state would
                                                                      cause an 'All paths down'
                                                                      state or the device is
                                                                      currently in use.
storage.core.path.stats                             get               List the SCSI stats for
                                                                      the SCSI Paths in the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.plugin                                 list              List loaded PSA plugins on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.plugin.registration                    add               Register a plugin module
                                                                      with PSA.
storage.core.plugin.registration                    list              List modules currently
                                                                      registered with PSA.
storage.core.plugin.registration                    remove            UnRegister a plugin module
                                                                      with PSA.
storage.core.scsi.device                            list              List the SCSI devices
                                                                      currently registered with
                                                                      the PSA.
storage.core.scsi.path                              list              List all the SCSI paths on
                                                                      the system.
storage.filesystem                                  automount         Request mounting of known
                                                                      datastores not explicitly
                                                                      unmounted.
storage.filesystem                                  list              List the volumes available
                                                                      to the host. This includes
                                                                      VMFS, NAS, VFAT and UFS
                                                                      partitions.
storage.filesystem                                  mount             Connect to and mount an
                                                                      unmounted volume on the
                                                                      ESX host.
storage.filesystem                                  rescan            Scan storage devices for
                                                                      new mountable filesystems.
storage.filesystem                                  unmount           Disconnect and unmount and
                                                                      existing VMFS or NAS
                                                                      volume. This will not
                                                                      delete the configuration
                                                                      for the volume, but will
                                                                      remove the volume from the
                                                                      list of mounted volumes.
storage.fpin.fc.adapter                             list              List FC adapters that
                                                                      support FPIN.
storage.fpin.fc                                     clear             Clear FPIN errors.
storage.fpin.fc.event                               list              List all FPIN statistics
                                                                      of FC transport.
storage.fpin.fc.stats                               get               Get the summary of FPIN
                                                                      statistics of FC
                                                                      transport.
storage.fpin.fc.target                              get               Get FC targets connected
                                                                      to a FPIN supported HBA.
storage.fpin.info                                   get               Get general FPIN
                                                                      information.
storage.fpin.info                                   set               Enable/Disable FPIN
                                                                      feature.
storage.hpp.device                                  list              List the devices currently
                                                                      controlled by the VMware
                                                                      High Performance Plugin.
storage.hpp.device                                  set               Configure settings for an
                                                                      HPP device.
storage.hpp.device.usermarkedssd                    list              List the devices that were
                                                                      marked/unmarked as SSD by
                                                                      user.
storage.hpp.path                                    list              List the paths currently
                                                                      claimed by the VMware High
                                                                      Performance Plugin
storage.iofilter                                    enable            Enable an iofilter.
storage.iofilter                                    list              List the iofilters
                                                                      installed on this host.
storage.nfs                                         add               Add a new NAS volume to
                                                                      the ESX Host and mount it
                                                                      with the given volume
                                                                      name.
storage.nfs.firewall                                add               Add a new allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entry in the nfsClient
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs.firewall                                list              List the allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entries from the nfsClient
                                                                      firewall ruleset.
storage.nfs.firewall                                remove            Remove an existing IP/Mask
                                                                      entry from the nfsClient
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs                                         list              List the NAS volumes
                                                                      currently known to the ESX
                                                                      host.
storage.nfs.param                                   get               Get the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NAS volumes.
storage.nfs.param                                   set               Set the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NAS volumes.
storage.nfs                                         remove            Remove an existing NAS
                                                                      volume from the ESX host.
storage.nfs41                                       add               Add a new NFS v4.1 volume
                                                                      to the ESX Host and mount
                                                                      it with the given volume
                                                                      name.
storage.nfs41.firewall                              add               Add a new allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entry in the nfs41Client
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs41.firewall                              list              List the allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entries from the
                                                                      nfs41Client firewall
                                                                      ruleset.
storage.nfs41.firewall                              remove            Remove an existing IP/Mask
                                                                      entry from the nfs41Client
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs41                                       list              List the NFS v4.1 volumes
                                                                      currently known to the ESX
                                                                      host.
storage.nfs41.param                                 get               Get the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NFS v4.1 volumes.
storage.nfs41.param                                 set               Set the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NFS v4.1 volumes.
storage.nfs41                                       remove            Remove an existing NFS
                                                                      v4.1 volume from the ESX
                                                                      host.
storage.nmp.device                                  list              List the devices currently
                                                                      controlled by the VMware
                                                                      NMP Multipath Plugin and
                                                                      show the SATP and PSP
                                                                      information associated
                                                                      with that device.
storage.nmp.device                                  set               Allow setting of the Path
                                                                      Selection Policy (PSP) for
                                                                      the given device to one of
                                                                      the loaded policies on the
                                                                      system.
storage.nmp.path                                    list              List the paths currently
                                                                      claimed by the VMware NMP
                                                                      Multipath Plugin and show
                                                                      the SATP and PSP
                                                                      information associated
                                                                      with that path.
storage.nmp.psp.fixed.deviceconfig                  get               Allow retrieving of Fixed
                                                                      Path Selection Policy
                                                                      settings for a given
                                                                      device.
storage.nmp.psp.fixed.deviceconfig                  set               Allow setting of the
                                                                      perferred path on a given
                                                                      device controlled by the
                                                                      Fixed Path Selection
                                                                      Policy.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.deviceconfig                get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      device PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.deviceconfig                set               Allow setting of per
                                                                      device PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.  This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given device with
                                                                      whichever PSP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.pathconfig                  get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      path PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.pathconfig                  set               Allow setting of per path
                                                                      PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.  This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given path with
                                                                      whichever PSP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.psp                                     list              List the Path Selection
                                                                      Plugins (PSP) that are
                                                                      currently loaded into the
                                                                      NMP system and display
                                                                      information about those
                                                                      PSPs
storage.nmp.psp.roundrobin.deviceconfig             get               Allow retrieving of Round
                                                                      Robin Path Selection
                                                                      Policy settings for a
                                                                      given device.
storage.nmp.psp.roundrobin.deviceconfig             set               Allow setting of the Round
                                                                      Robin path options on a
                                                                      given device controlled by
                                                                      the Round Robin Selection
                                                                      Policy.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.deviceconfig               get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      device SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.deviceconfig               set               Allow setting of per
                                                                      device SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters. This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given device with
                                                                      whichever SATP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.pathconfig                 get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      path SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.pathconfig                 set               Allow setting of per path
                                                                      SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters.  This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given path with
                                                                      whichever SATP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.satp                                    list              List the Storage Array
                                                                      Type Plugins (SATP) that
                                                                      are currently loaded into
                                                                      the NMP system and display
                                                                      information about those
                                                                      SATPs
storage.nmp.satp.rule                               add               Add a rule to the list of
                                                                      claim rules for the given
                                                                      SATP.
storage.nmp.satp.rule                               list              List the claiming rules
                                                                      for Storage Array Type
                                                                      Plugins (SATP)
storage.nmp.satp.rule                               remove            Delete a rule from the
                                                                      list of claim rules for
                                                                      the given SATP.
storage.nmp.satp                                    set               Set the default Path
                                                                      Selection Policy for a
                                                                      given Storage Array Type
                                                                      Plugin (SATP).
storage.osdata                                      create            Create an OSData partition
                                                                      on a disk.
storage.san.fc.events                               clear             Clear events for a given
                                                                      FC adapter on the system.
storage.san.fc.events                               get               Get Events for FC Devices
storage.san.fc                                      list              List attributes of all FC
                                                                      adapters on the system.
storage.san.fc                                      reset             Perform LIP (Loop
                                                                      Initiation Primitive)
                                                                      Reset to a given FC
                                                                      adapter on the system.
storage.san.fc.stats                                get               Get statistics for a given
                                                                      FC adapter, or all FC
                                                                      adapters on the system.
storage.san.fcoe                                    list              List attributes of all
                                                                      FCoE adapters on the
                                                                      system.
storage.san.fcoe                                    reset             Perform LIP (Loop
                                                                      Initiation Primitive)
                                                                      Reset to a given FCoE
                                                                      adapter on the system.
storage.san.fcoe.stats                              get               Get statistics for a given
                                                                      FCoE adapter, or all FCoE
                                                                      adapters on the system.
storage.san.iscsi                                   list              List attributes of all
                                                                      Software iSCSI adapters on
                                                                      the system.
storage.san.iscsi.stats                             get               Get statistics for
                                                                      Software iSCSI adapter.
storage.san.sas                                     list              List all SAS IO Device
                                                                      Management devices.
storage.san.sas                                     reset             Perform SAS Reset
storage.san.sas.stats                               get               List Stats for given
                                                                      device, or all devices.
storage.vflash.device                               list              List vflash SSD devices.
storage.vflash.module                               get               Get vflash module info.
storage.vflash.module                               list              List vflash modules.
storage.vflash.module.stats                         get               Get vflash module
                                                                      statistics
storage.vmfs.extent                                 list              List the VMFS extents
                                                                      available on the host.
storage.vmfs.host                                   list              List hosts accessing a
                                                                      particular VMFS Volume.
storage.vmfs.lockmode                               list              List the on-disk critical
                                                                      section locking mode for
                                                                      VMFS volumes available on
                                                                      this host.
storage.vmfs.lockmode                               set               Update the on-disk
                                                                      critical section locking
                                                                      mode for a particular VMFS
                                                                      Volume.
storage.vmfs.pbcache                                get               Get VMFS Pointer Block
                                                                      cache statistics.
storage.vmfs.pbcache                                reset             Reset the VMFS Pointer
                                                                      Block cache statistics.
storage.vmfs.reclaim.config                         get               Get space reclamation
                                                                      configuration parameters
storage.vmfs.reclaim.config                         set               Set space reclamation
                                                                      configuration parameters
storage.vmfs.snapshot.extent                        list              List extents of unresolved
                                                                      snapshots/replicas of VMFS
                                                                      volume.
storage.vmfs.snapshot                               list              List unresolved
                                                                      snapshots/replicas of VMFS
                                                                      volume.
storage.vmfs.snapshot                               mount             Mount a snapshot/replica
                                                                      of a VMFS volume.
storage.vmfs.snapshot                               resignature       Resignature a
                                                                      snapshot/replica of a VMFS
                                                                      volume.
storage.vmfs                                        unmap             Reclaim the space by
                                                                      unmapping free blocks from
                                                                      VMFS Volume
storage.vmfs                                        upgrade           Upgrade a VMFS3 volume to
                                                                      VMFS5.
storage.vvol.daemon                                 unbindall         Unbind all Virtual Volumes
                                                                      from all VASA Providers
                                                                      known to this host.
storage.vvol.nvme                                   discover          Performs a rescan of vVol
                                                                      NVMe subsystems.
storage.vvol.nvme.info                              get               Get vVol NVMe host
                                                                      information.
storage.vvol.nvme.info                              set               Set vVol NVMe host
                                                                      information.
storage.vvol.protocolendpoint                       list              List the VVol Protocol
                                                                      EndPoints currently known
                                                                      to this host.
storage.vvol.protocolendpoint                       startforceunbind  Unbind all Virtual Volumes
                                                                      on the PE with zero open
                                                                      handle count.
storage.vvol.stats                                  add               Add entity for stats
                                                                      tracking
storage.vvol.stats                                  disable           Disable stats for complete
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.stats                                  enable            Enable stats for complete
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.stats                                  get               Get stats for given stats
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.stats                                  list              List all supported stats
storage.vvol.stats                                  remove            Remove tracked entity
storage.vvol.stats                                  reset             Reset stats for given
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.storagearray.container                 list              List VVol containers for
                                                                      storage arrays known to
                                                                      this host.
storage.vvol.storagearray                           list              VVol VASA Storage Array
storage.vvol.storagearray.protocolendpoint          list              List Protocol Endpoints
                                                                      for storage arrays known
                                                                      to this host.
storage.vvol.storagecontainer.abandonedvvol         scan              Scans the specified
                                                                      storage container for
                                                                      abandoned VVols.
storage.vvol.storagecontainer                       list              List VVol storage
                                                                      containers known to this
                                                                      host.
storage.vvol.vasacontext                            get               Get the VVol VASA Context
                                                                      (vCenter UUID).
storage.vvol.vasaprovider                           list              List the VASA Providers
                                                                      registered on this host.
storage.vvol.virtualvolume                          unmap             Reclaim the space by
                                                                      unmapping free blocks from
                                                                      VMFS config volume.
storage.vvol.vmstats                                get               Get the VVol information
                                                                      and statistics for a
                                                                      specific virtual machine.
system.account                                      add               Create a new local user
                                                                      account.
system.account                                      list              List local user accounts.
system.account                                      remove            Remove an existing local
                                                                      user account.
system.account                                      set               Modify an existing local
                                                                      user account.
system.auditrecords                                 get               Audit record configuration
                                                                      settings.
system.auditrecords.local                           disable           Disable audit record
                                                                      storage.
system.auditrecords.local                           enable            Enable audit record
                                                                      storage.
system.auditrecords.local                           set               Set audit record storage
                                                                      configuration options.
system.auditrecords.remote                          disable           Disable transmitting audit
                                                                      records to remote hosts.
system.auditrecords.remote                          enable            Enable transmitting audit
                                                                      records to remote hosts.
system.boot.device                                  get               Get the systems boot
                                                                      device.
system.clock                                        get               Display the current system
                                                                      clock parameters.
system.clock                                        set               Set system clock
                                                                      parameters.
system.coredump.file                                add               Create a VMkernel Dump
                                                                      VMFS file for this system.
system.coredump.file                                get               Get the dump file path.
                                                                      This command will print
                                                                      the path to the active
                                                                      and/or configured VMFS
                                                                      Dump File.
system.coredump.file                                list              List the active and
                                                                      configured VMFS Diagnostic
                                                                      Files.
system.coredump.file                                remove            Remove a VMkernel Dump
                                                                      VMFS file from this
                                                                      system.
system.coredump.file                                set               Set the active and
                                                                      configured VMkernel Dump
                                                                      VMFS file for this system.
system.coredump.network                             check             Check the status of the
                                                                      configured network dump
                                                                      server
system.coredump.network                             get               Get the currently
                                                                      configured parameters for
                                                                      network coredump, if
                                                                      enabled.
system.coredump.network                             set               Set the parameters used
                                                                      for network core dump
system.coredump.partition                           get               Get one of the dump
                                                                      partition configured
                                                                      values. This command will
                                                                      print either the active
                                                                      dump partition or the
                                                                      configured dump partition
                                                                      depending on the flags
                                                                      passed.
system.coredump.partition                           list              List all of the partitions
                                                                      on the system that have a
                                                                      partition type matching
                                                                      the VMware Core partition
                                                                      type. Also indicate which
                                                                      partition, if any, is
                                                                      being used as the system's
                                                                      dump partition and which
                                                                      is configured to be used
                                                                      at next boot.
system.coredump.partition                           set               Set the specific VMkernel
                                                                      dump partition for this
                                                                      system. This will
                                                                      configure the dump
                                                                      partition for the next
                                                                      boot. This command will
                                                                      change the active dump
                                                                      partition to the partition
                                                                      specified.
system.entropyd                                     get               Get configuration settings
                                                                      of entropyd.
system.entropyd                                     set               Set the entropyd config
                                                                      parameters.
system.health.report                                get               Displays one or more
                                                                      health reports
system.health.report                                list              List all the health
                                                                      reports currently
                                                                      generated.
system.hostname                                     get               Get the host, domain or
                                                                      fully qualified name of
                                                                      the ESX host.
system.hostname                                     set               This command allows the
                                                                      user to set the hostname,
                                                                      domain name or fully
                                                                      qualified domain name of
                                                                      the ESX host.
system.maintenanceMode                              get               Get the maintenance mode
                                                                      state of the system.
system.maintenanceMode                              set               Enable or disable the
                                                                      maintenance mode of the
                                                                      system.
system.module                                       get               Show information for a
                                                                      VMkernel module.
system.module                                       list              List the VMkernel modules
                                                                      that the system knows
                                                                      about.
system.module                                       load              Load a VMkernel module
                                                                      with the given name if it
                                                                      is enabled. If the module
                                                                      is disabled then the use
                                                                      of --force is required to
                                                                      load the module.
system.module.parameters                            clear             Clear the load time
                                                                      parameters for a given
                                                                      VMkernel module.
system.module.parameters                            copy              Copy the load time
                                                                      parameters from one
                                                                      VMkernel module to
                                                                      another.
system.module.parameters                            list              List the parameters, a
                                                                      descriptions of each
                                                                      parameter supported for a
                                                                      given module name and the
                                                                      user defined value for
                                                                      each parameter.
system.module.parameters                            set               Set the load time
                                                                      parameters for the given
                                                                      VMkernel module.
system.module                                       set               Allow enabling and
                                                                      disabling of a VMkernel
                                                                      module.
system.ntp.config                                   get               Display Network Time
                                                                      Protocol configuration.
system.ntp                                          get               Display Network Time
                                                                      Protocol configuration
system.ntp                                          set               Configures the ESX Network
                                                                      Time Protocol agent.
system.ntp.stats                                    get               Report operational state
                                                                      of Network Time Protocol
                                                                      Daemon
system.ntp                                          test              Verify operational status
                                                                      of ESX NTP service.
system.partialMaintenanceMode                       list              Get the partial
                                                                      maintenance mode state of
                                                                      the system.
system.partialMaintenanceMode                       set               Change partial maintenance
                                                                      mode.
system.permission                                   list              List permissions defined
                                                                      on the host.
system.permission                                   set               Set permission for a user
                                                                      or group.
system.permission                                   unset             Remove permission for a
                                                                      user or group.
system.process                                      list              List the VMkernel
                                                                      UserWorld processes
                                                                      currently on the host.
system.process.stats.load                           get               System load average over
                                                                      the last 1, 5 and 15
                                                                      minutes.
system.process.stats.running                        get               Number of currently
                                                                      running processes.
system.ptp                                          get               Display Precision Time
                                                                      Protocol configuration
system.ptp                                          set               Configures the ESX
                                                                      Precision Time Protocol
                                                                      agent.
system.ptp.stats                                    get               Report operational state
                                                                      of Precision Time Protocol
                                                                      Daemon
system.ptp                                          test              Verify operational status
                                                                      of ESX PTP service.
system.secpolicy.domain                             list              List the enforcement level
                                                                      for each domain.
system.secpolicy.domain                             set               Set the enforcement level
                                                                      for a domain in the
                                                                      system. Any option
                                                                      specified here is not
                                                                      persistent and will not
                                                                      survive a reboot of the
                                                                      system.
system.security.certificatestore                    add               Add a new CA certificate
                                                                      to the CA certificate
                                                                      store.
system.security.certificatestore                    list              List all certificates in
                                                                      the CA certificate store.
system.security.certificatestore                    remove            Remove a certificate from
                                                                      the CA certificate store.
system.security.fips140.ssh                         get               Get FIPS140 mode of ssh.
system.security.fips140.ssh                         set               Set FIPS140 mode of ssh.
system.security.keypersistence                      disable           Disable key persistence.
system.security.keypersistence                      enable            Enable key persistence.
system.security.keypersistence                      get               Get the status of key
                                                                      persistence.
system.settings.advanced                            add               Add a user defined
                                                                      advanced option to the
                                                                      /UserVars/ advanced option
                                                                      tree.
system.settings.advanced                            list              List the advanced options
                                                                      available from the
                                                                      VMkernel.
system.settings.advanced                            remove            Remove a user defined
                                                                      advanced option from the
                                                                      /UserVars/ advanced option
                                                                      tree.
system.settings.advanced                            set               Set the value of an
                                                                      advanced option.
system.settings.encryption                          get               Get the encryption mode
                                                                      and policy.
system.settings.encryption.recovery                 list              List recovery keys.
system.settings.encryption.recovery                 rotate            Rotate the recover key.
system.settings.encryption                          set               Set the encryption mode
                                                                      and policy.
system.settings.gueststore.repository               get               Get GuestStore repository.
system.settings.gueststore.repository               set               Set or clear GuestStore
                                                                      repository.
system.settings.kernel                              list              List VMkernel kernel
                                                                      settings.
system.settings.kernel                              set               Set a VMKernel setting.
system.settings.keyboard.layout                     get               Get the keyboard layout
system.settings.keyboard.layout                     list              List the keyboard layout
system.settings.keyboard.layout                     set               Set the keyboard layout
system.shutdown                                     poweroff          Power off the system. The
                                                                      host must be in
                                                                      maintenance mode.
system.shutdown                                     reboot            Reboot the system. The
                                                                      host must be in
                                                                      maintenance mode.
system.slp                                          get               Get SLP Agent
                                                                      configuration.
system.slp                                          search            Perform SLP search for
                                                                      neighboring services
system.slp                                          set               Configure ESX SLP agent.
system.slp.stats                                    get               Report operational state
                                                                      of Service Location
                                                                      Protocol Daemon
system.snmp                                         get               Get SNMP Agent
                                                                      configuration
system.snmp                                         hash              Generate localized hash
                                                                      values based on this
                                                                      agents snmp engine id.
system.snmp                                         set               This command allows the
                                                                      user to set up ESX SNMP
                                                                      agent.
system.snmp                                         test              Verify ESX SNMP
                                                                      notifications can be
                                                                      delivered to target
                                                                      destinations.
system.ssh.client.config                            list              List SSH client's
                                                                      configuration settings.
system.ssh.client.config                            set               Set SSH client
                                                                      configuration.
system.ssh.key                                      add               Add new SSH authorized
                                                                      keys.
system.ssh.key                                      list              List SSH authorized keys.
system.ssh.key                                      remove            Remove SSH authorized
                                                                      keys.
system.ssh.server.config                            list              List SSH server's
                                                                      configuration settings.
system.ssh.server.config                            set               Set SSH server
                                                                      configuration.
system.ssh.version                                  get               Show the version of SSH.
system.stats.installtime                            get               Display the date and time
                                                                      when this system was first
                                                                      installed. Value will not
                                                                      change on subsequent
                                                                      updates.
system.stats.uptime                                 get               Display the number of
                                                                      microseconds the system
                                                                      has been running.
system.syslog.config                                get               Show the current global
                                                                      configuration values.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      add               Add a log filter.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      get               Show the current log
                                                                      filter configuration
                                                                      values.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      list              Show the added log
                                                                      filters.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      remove            Remove a log filter.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      set               Set log filtering
                                                                      configuration options.
system.syslog.config.logger                         list              Show the currently
                                                                      configured sub-loggers.
system.syslog.config.logger                         set               Set configuration options
                                                                      for a specific sub-logger.
system.syslog.config                                set               Set syslog daemon
                                                                      configuration options.
system.syslog                                       mark              Issue a message to all
                                                                      outputs.
system.syslog                                       reload            Reload the log daemon to
                                                                      apply any new
                                                                      configuration options.
system.tierdevice                                   create            Create a new tier device
                                                                      partition.
system.tierdevice                                   delete            Delete an already present
                                                                      tier device partition.
system.tierdevice                                   list              List all SSDs with a tier
                                                                      device partition.
system.time                                         get               Display the current system
                                                                      time.
system.time                                         set               Set the system clock time.
                                                                      Any missing parameters
                                                                      will default to the
                                                                      current time
system.tls.client                                   get               Get TLS client profile
                                                                      name and values.
system.tls.client                                   set               Set TLS client profile
                                                                      name and values. The
                                                                      system must be rebooted
                                                                      for the new configuration
                                                                      to take effect.
system.tls.server                                   get               Get TLS server profile
                                                                      name and values.
system.tls.server                                   set               Set TLS server profile
                                                                      name and values. The
                                                                      system must be rebooted
                                                                      for the new configuration
                                                                      to take effect.
system.uuid                                         get               Get the system UUID.
system.version                                      get               Display the product name,
                                                                      version and build
                                                                      information.
system.visorfs                                      get               Obtain status information
                                                                      on the memory filesystem
                                                                      as a whole.
system.visorfs.ramdisk                              add               Add a new Visorfs RAM disk
                                                                      to the ESXi Host and mount
                                                                      it.
system.visorfs.ramdisk                              list              List the RAM disks used by
                                                                      the host.
system.visorfs.ramdisk                              remove            Remove a Visorfs RAM disk
                                                                      from the ESXi Host.
system.visorfs.tardisk                              list              List the tardisks used by
                                                                      the host.
system.wbem                                         get               Display WBEM Agent
                                                                      configuration.
system.wbem.provider                                list              Display WBEM provider
                                                                      configuration.
system.wbem.provider                                set               This command is used to
                                                                      manage ESX CIMOM
                                                                      providers.
system.wbem                                         set               This command allows the
                                                                      user to set up ESX CIMOM
                                                                      agent.
system.welcomemsg                                   get               Get the Welcome Message
                                                                      for DCUI.
system.welcomemsg                                   set               Set the welcome message
                                                                      string.
vm.appinfo                                          get               Get the state of appinfo
                                                                      component on the ESXi
                                                                      host.
vm.appinfo                                          set               Modify the appinfo
                                                                      component on the ESXi
                                                                      host.
vm.process                                          kill              Used to forcibly kill
                                                                      Virtual Machines that are
                                                                      stuck and not responding
                                                                      to normal stop operations.
vm.process                                          list              List the virtual machines
                                                                      on this system. This
                                                                      command currently will
                                                                      only list running VMs on
                                                                      the system.
vsan.cluster                                        get               Get information about the
                                                                      vSAN cluster that this
                                                                      host is joined to.
vsan.cluster                                        join              Join the host to a vSAN
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.cluster                                        leave             Leave the vSAN cluster the
                                                                      host is currently joined
                                                                      to.
vsan.cluster                                        list              Get information about the
                                                                      vSAN clusters that this
                                                                      host is joined to.
vsan.cluster                                        new               Create a vSAN cluster with
                                                                      current host joined. A
                                                                      random sub-cluster UUID
                                                                      will be generated.
vsan.cluster.preferredfaultdomain                   get               Get the preferred fault
                                                                      domain for a stretched
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.cluster.preferredfaultdomain                   list              List the preferred fault
                                                                      domain for all attached
                                                                      stretched clusters.
vsan.cluster.preferredfaultdomain                   set               Set the preferred fault
                                                                      domain for a stretched
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.cluster                                        restore           Restore the persisted vSAN
                                                                      cluster configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           add               Add a unicast agent to the
                                                                      vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           clear             Removes all unicast agents
                                                                      in the vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           list              List all unicast agents in
                                                                      the vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           remove            Remove a unicast agent
                                                                      from the vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cmmds.timemachine                              get               Get vSAN CMMDS time
                                                                      machine configuration.
vsan.cmmds.timemachine                              set               Configure vSAN CMMDS time
                                                                      machine.
vsan.datastore                                      add               Add a new datastore to the
                                                                      vSAN cluster. This
                                                                      operation may be used to
                                                                      add either a new local
                                                                      datastore or a remote
                                                                      datastore. Adding local
                                                                      datastore is only allowed
                                                                      if vSAN is enabled on the
                                                                      host. In general, add
                                                                      should be done at cluster
                                                                      level. Across a vSAN
                                                                      cluster vSAN datastores
                                                                      should be in sync.
vsan.datastore                                      clear             Remove all but the default
                                                                      datastore from the vSAN
                                                                      cluster. This operation is
                                                                      only allowed if vSAN is
                                                                      enabled on the host. In
                                                                      general, clear should be
                                                                      done at cluster level.
                                                                      Across a vSAN cluster vSAN
                                                                      datastores should be in
                                                                      sync.
vsan.datastore                                      list              List datastores in the
                                                                      vSAN cluster.
vsan.datastore.name                                 get               Get vSAN datastore name.
vsan.datastore.name                                 set               Configure vSAN datastore
                                                                      name. In general, rename
                                                                      should always be done at
                                                                      cluster level. Across a
                                                                      vSAN cluster vSAN
                                                                      datastore name should be
                                                                      in sync.
vsan.datastore                                      remove            Remove a datastore from
                                                                      the vSAN cluster. This
                                                                      operation is only allowed
                                                                      if vSAN is enabled on the
                                                                      host. In general, remove
                                                                      should be done at cluster
                                                                      level. Across a vSAN
                                                                      cluster vSAN datastores
                                                                      should be in sync.
vsan.debug.advcfg                                   list              List all advanced
                                                                      configuration options with
                                                                      non-default values.
vsan.debug.controller                               list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about all vSAN disk
                                                                      controllers (output may
                                                                      change between releases)
vsan.debug.disk                                     list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about all vSAN disks in
                                                                      the cluster.
vsan.debug.disk                                     overview          Print overview information
                                                                      about all vSAN disks in
                                                                      the cluster.
vsan.debug.disk.summary                             get               Print summary information
                                                                      about all vSAN disks in
                                                                      the cluster.
vsan.debug.evacuation                               precheck          Examine what it takes if
                                                                      an entity (disk group or
                                                                      host) is evacuated in
                                                                      various modes (Action).
                                                                      The result is accurate
                                                                      when all hosts in the vSAN
                                                                      cluster are of the same
                                                                      version and have the same
                                                                      disk format.
vsan.debug.limit                                    get               Print summary information
                                                                      about vSAN limits (output
                                                                      may change between
                                                                      releases)
vsan.debug.memory                                   list              Print both userworld and
                                                                      kernel memory consumptions
                                                                      of vSAN.
vsan.debug.mob                                      start             Start vSAN Managed Object
                                                                      Browser Service.
vsan.debug.mob                                      status            Query vSAN Managed Object
                                                                      Browser Service is running
                                                                      or not.
vsan.debug.mob                                      stop              Stop vSAN Managed Object
                                                                      Browser Service.
vsan.debug.object.health.summary                    get               Print health summary
                                                                      information about all vSAN
                                                                      objects in the cluster
                                                                      (output may change between
                                                                      releases)
vsan.debug.object                                   list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about vSAN objects in the
                                                                      cluster. This command
                                                                      would only show 100
                                                                      objects at most by
                                                                      default.
vsan.debug.object                                   overview          Print overview information
                                                                      about all vSAN objects in
                                                                      the cluster. This command
                                                                      would only show 100
                                                                      objects at most by
                                                                      default.
vsan.debug.resync                                   list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about vSAN resyncing
                                                                      objects (output may change
                                                                      between releases)
vsan.debug.resync.summary                           get               Print summary information
                                                                      about vSAN resyncing
                                                                      objects (output may change
                                                                      between releases)
vsan.debug.vmdk                                     list              Print summary information
                                                                      about VMDKs on local vSAN
                                                                      datastore (output may
                                                                      change between releases)
vsan.dedupstore.distribution                        get               Get the dedup store
                                                                      distribution info of vSAN
                                                                      ESA (Express Storage
                                                                      Architecture) cluster.
vsan.dedupstore                                     get               Get vSAN ESA dedup store
                                                                      view.
vsan.encryption.cert                                get               Get encryption KMS server
                                                                      certificate contents.
vsan.encryption.cert.path                           list              List encryption
                                                                      certificate file paths.
vsan.encryption.hostkey                             get               Get host key from keycache
                                                                      used for vSAN encryption.
vsan.encryption.info                                get               Get vSAN encryption
                                                                      infomation.
vsan.encryption.kms                                 list              List the KMS
                                                                      configurations used for
                                                                      vSAN encryption.
vsan.faultdomain                                    get               Get the fault domain name
                                                                      for this host.
vsan.faultdomain                                    reset             Reset Host fault domain to
                                                                      default value
vsan.faultdomain                                    set               Set the fault domain for
                                                                      this host
vsan.hardware.vcg                                   add               Map unidentified vSAN
                                                                      hardware device with VCG
                                                                      ID.
vsan.hardware.vcg                                   get               Get the vSAN VCG ID for a
                                                                      vSAN hardware device.
                                                                      Output is VCG ID while
                                                                      "N/A" means device ID is
                                                                      not mapped.
vsan.health.cluster                                 get               Get a specific health
                                                                      check status and its
                                                                      details
vsan.health.cluster                                 list              List a cluster wide health
                                                                      check across all types of
                                                                      health checks
vsan.iscsi.defaultconfig                            get               Get default values for
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI Target
                                                                      configurations.
vsan.iscsi.defaultconfig                            set               Set default values for
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI Target
                                                                      configurations.
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               create            Create vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      home object. Once created,
                                                                      the home object will be
                                                                      available for all the
                                                                      hosts in vSAN cluster.
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI target home
                                                                      object should be created
                                                                      only once for the vSAN
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               delete            Delete vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      home object. This
                                                                      operation will destroy all
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      configuration
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               get               Get status for the vSAN
                                                                      iSCSI target home object
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               set               Update configuration for
                                                                      the vSAN iSCSI target home
                                                                      object
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           add               Add a new initiator group.
                                                                      An initiator group is a
                                                                      collection of iSCSI
                                                                      initiator hosts. A LUN can
                                                                      be exposed to multiple
                                                                      initiators via initiator
                                                                      group.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           get               Get initiator group
                                                                      properties.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup.initiator                 add               Add new initiator iSCSI
                                                                      names to the vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      initiator group.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup.initiator                 remove            Remove initiator iSCSI
                                                                      names from the vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      initiator group.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           list              Get the list of initiator
                                                                      groups.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           remove            Remove an initiator group.
                                                                      Group should be empty. If
                                                                      you want to remove non-
                                                                      empty group use --force
                                                                      option.
vsan.iscsi.status                                   get               Gets current status
                                                                      (Enabled or Disabled).
vsan.iscsi.status                                   set               Enable or disable iSCSI
                                                                      target support, query
                                                                      status
vsan.iscsi.target                                   add               Add a new vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      target.
vsan.iscsi.target                                   get               Get configuration for vSAN
                                                                      iSCSI target
vsan.iscsi.target                                   list              List vSAN iSCSI targets.
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               add               Add a new vSAN iSCSI LUN
                                                                      to specified target
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               get               Get configuration for vSAN
                                                                      iSCSI LUN
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               list              List vSAN iSCSI LUNs in
                                                                      specified target.
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               remove            Remove a vSAN iSCSI LUN
                                                                      from specified target.
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               set               Update configuration for
                                                                      given vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      LUN.
vsan.iscsi.target                                   remove            Remove a vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      target.
vsan.iscsi.target                                   set               Update configuration of
                                                                      the given iSCSI target.
vsan.maintenancemode                                cancel            Cancel an in-progress vSAN
                                                                      maintenance mode
                                                                      operation.The command is
                                                                      not used for exit host
                                                                      maintenance mode. Please
                                                                      run esxcli system
                                                                      maintenanceMode set -e 0
                                                                      to exit host maintenance
                                                                      mode
vsan.network                                        clear             Clear the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ip                                     add               Add an IP interface to the
                                                                      vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ip                                     remove            Remove an IP interface
                                                                      from the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ip                                     set               Reconfigure an IP
                                                                      interface in the vSAN
                                                                      network configuration.
vsan.network.ipv4                                   add               Add an IP interface to the
                                                                      vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ipv4                                   remove            Remove an IP interface
                                                                      from the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ipv4                                   set               Reconfigure an IP
                                                                      interface in the vSAN
                                                                      network configuration.
vsan.network                                        list              List the network
                                                                      configuration currently in
                                                                      use by vSAN.
vsan.network                                        remove            Remove an interface from
                                                                      the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network                                        restore           Restore the persisted vSAN
                                                                      network configuration.
vsan.network.security                               get               Get vSAN network security
                                                                      configurations for a
                                                                      subcluster.
vsan.network.security                               list              List vSAN network security
                                                                      configurations.
vsan.network.security                               set               Configure vSAN network
                                                                      security settings for a
                                                                      subcluster.
vsan.perf.diagnostic                                get               Gets current status about
                                                                      diagnostic mode.
vsan.perf.diagnostic                                set               Set vSAN diagnostic mode
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.perf                                           get               Gets current status
                                                                      (Enabled or Disabled).
vsan.perf                                           set               Set vSAN performance
                                                                      service configuration.
vsan.policy                                         cleardefault      Clear default vSAN storage
                                                                      policy values.
vsan.policy                                         getdefault        Get default vSAN storage
                                                                      policy values.
vsan.policy                                         setdefault        Set default vSAN storage
                                                                      policy values.
vsan.resync.bandwidth                               get               Get information about vSAN
                                                                      resync bandwidth in Mbps
                                                                      for the disk group with
                                                                      the heaviest resync
                                                                      workload.
vsan.resync.throttle                                get               Get information about vSAN
                                                                      resync throttling
vsan.resync.throttle                                set               Configure vSAN resync
                                                                      throttling
vsan.storage                                        add               Add physical disk for vSAN
                                                                      usage.
vsan.storage.automode                               get                Get status of storage
                                                                      auto claim mode.
vsan.storage.automode                               set               Configure storage auto
                                                                      claim mode
vsan.storage.diskgroup                              mount             Mount a vSAN disk or disk
                                                                      group.
vsan.storage.diskgroup                              rebuild           Rebuild vSAN diskgroup.
vsan.storage.diskgroup                              unmount           Unmount vSAN disk or disk
                                                                      group.
vsan.storage                                        list              List vSAN storage
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.storage                                        remove            Remove physical disks from
                                                                      vSAN disk groups.
vsan.storage.tag                                    add               Add a vSAN storage tag.
vsan.storage.tag                                    remove            Remove a vSAN storage tag.
vsan.storagepool                                    add               Add physical disk for vSAN
                                                                      usage.
vsan.storagepool                                    list              List vSAN storage pool
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.storagepool                                    mount             Mount vSAN disk from
                                                                      storage pool.
vsan.storagepool                                    rebuild           Rebuild vSAN storage pool
                                                                      disks.
vsan.storagepool                                    remove            Remove physical disk from
                                                                      storage pool usage.
                                                                      Exactly one of --disk or
                                                                      --uuid param is required.
vsan.storagepool                                    unmount           Unmount vSAN disk from
                                                                      storage pool.
vsan.trace                                          get               Get the vSAN tracing
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.trace                                          set               Configure vSAN trace.
                                                                      Please note: This command
                                                                      is not thread safe.
vsan.vdx                                            attach            Attach a virtual disk from
                                                                      the specified disk
                                                                      backend.
vsan.vdx                                            create            Create virtual disk to
                                                                      provide storage.
vsan.vdx                                            delete            Delete the backend for the
                                                                      virtual disk.
vsan.vdx                                            detach            Detach a previously
                                                                      attached virtual disk.
vsan.vdx                                            list              List all the existing
                                                                      virtual disks.
[root@ec6rr0u19:~]  esxcli network nic list


The essential PowerShell commands cheat sheet
In addition to the 5 essential commands above, we’ve compiled a list of other commonly used commands. Here is the essential Windows PowerShell commands cheat sheet:

Command	Description
Get-Service	Retrieve information about services
Get-Process	Retrieve information about processes
Get-EventLog	Retrieve information from event logs
Set-ExecutionPolicy	Modify the script execution policy
Test-Connection	Test the connectivity to a remote computer
Out-File	Write PowerShell output to a file
Get-Help	Display information about concepts and commands
Get-History	Retrieve recent commands in your current session
Get-Command	Retrieve all available PowerShell commands
ConvertTo-HTML	Create an HTML file from PowerShell output
Copy-Item	Copy a file to a specific location
Clear-History	Clear entries from your command history
Add-History	Add entries to your command history
Format-Table	Format PowerShell output as a table
Format-List	Format PowerShell output as a list
Clear-Content	Retain an item while deleting the contents of that item
Checkpoint-Computer	Set a restore point on your machine
ForEach-Object	Perform an operation on each item in a specified group
Where-Object	Select objects with a certain property  
Select-Object	Select specific properties of an object or group of objects
Out-File	Create a local file to save cmdlet output
Write-Progress	Display a progress bar in a PowerShell window
Debug-Process	Attach a debugger to a running process
Get-WinEvent	Display Windows event logs
Wait-Job	Suppress the command prompt until background jobs finish running

PowerShell Commands List
Here are 25 basic PowerShell commands:
Command name	Alias	Description
Set-Location	cd, chdir, sl	Sets the current working location to a specified location.
Get-Content	cat, gc, type	Gets the content of the item at the specified location.
Add-Content	ac	Adds content to the specified items, such as adding words to a file.
Set-Content	sc	Writes or replaces the content in an item with new content.
Copy-Item	copy, cp, cpi	Copies an item from one location to another.
Remove-Item	del, erase, rd, ri, rm, rmdir	Deletes the specified items.
Move-Item	mi, move, mv	Moves an item from one location to another.
Set-Item	si	Changes the value of an item to the value specified in the command.
New-Item	ni	Creates a new item.
Start-Job	sajb	Starts a Windows PowerShell background job.
Compare-Object	compare, dif	Compares two sets of objects.
Group-Object	group	Groups objects that contain the same value for specified properties.
Invoke-WebRequest	curl, iwr, wget	Gets content from a web page on the Internet.
Measure-Object	measure	Calculates the numeric properties of objects, and the characters, words, and lines in string objects, such as files …
Resolve-Path	rvpa	Resolves the wildcard characters in a path, and displays the path contents.
Resume-Job	rujb	Restarts a suspended job
Set-Variable	set, sv	Sets the value of a variable. Creates the variable if one with the requested name does not exist.
Show-Command	shcm	Creates Windows PowerShell commands in a graphical command window.
Sort-Object	sort	Sorts objects by property values.
Start-Service	sasv	Starts one or more stopped services.
Start-Process	saps, start	Starts one or more processes on the local computer.
Suspend-Job	sujb	Temporarily stops workflow jobs.
Wait-Job	wjb	Suppresses the command prompt until one or all of the Windows PowerShell background jobs running in the session are …
Where-Object	?, where	Selects objects from a collection based on their property values.
Write-Output	echo, write	Sends the specified objects to the next command in the pipeline. If the command is the last command in the pipeline,…

We can scratch partition through GUI mode only in advanced setting by setting the below path.
/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U23

/vmfs/volumes/67382ebc-23318a4d-71e3-6cfe5484a3d8/Scratch_Partition/C6HADRS003/.locker-EC6VM001
/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U23
 

and done the hardening script from wb5 jump server through help form logeshwaran.
Pushed the latest updetes through central repo from management console from logeshwaran help.

S5HSANSW001
fc1/6       100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/7       100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/8       100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/21      100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
 
S5HSANSW002
fc1/6       200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/7       200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/8       200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/21      200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge


10.250.26.17,10.250.26.18,172.20.25.231,172.26.208.10,172.28.135.37,10.248.21.57

vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/OVF/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP.ovf" "vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP_new1




Src:W5HFP001-172.18.61.16-->Dest:e5hrr2u23.myl.com-172.29.127.150

Cannot complete the configuration of the vSphere HA agent on the host. "Applying HA VIBs on the cluster encountered a failure". 
Failed installing HA component on the host: host-574414 An error occurred while downloading depot metadata from 
http://WB5VC001.myl.com:9084/vum/repository/hostupdate/vmw/metadata-143.zip.

/vmfs/volumes/67becb46-1355ab31-371a-303ea71fc864

/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U21

faced HA Error VIB files are missiing in hosts created new cluster and disconnected from old cluster and added freshly then the vib files are available in esxi hosts.


DELL POWEREDGE 760 Model Drivers
Firmware is running with N-2 version need to upgrade to N-1 version 7.10.90.00-A00
Bios - running with N-2 need to upgrade to N-1 version as 2.35
Intel Net Adapters - Current Network Adapter driver Firmware Version : 22.5.7, A00
Desired Network Adapter driver Firmware Version : 23.0.8, A00
FC adapter currently running with 03.07.23 need to upgrade with 03.08.24
Perc Controller - currently running with 8.8.0.0.18-26 need to upgrade with 8.8.0.0.18-32 - A07

CHG0180541 - e5hrr2u25
CHG0180537 - e5hrr2u23
CHG0180524 - e5hrr2u21
CHG0180519 - e5hrr2u19

Emulex FC Adapter no need to configure boot target just need to enable Boot from SAN.
Qlogic FC Adapter need to configure target detais on FC adapter target connection.

5H Site 4 ESXi Hosts Observation:
Summary: New Build Transition | CHG0180537 | Build to Run | ESXi || e5hrr2u23
Analysis and findings:
Hardware observation
>> The fiber channel version was lower version Kindly upgrade to latest 03.08.24
>>PERC H965i is in a lower version; kindly upgrade to N-1 version
>>Kindly add the host in the domain.
>> The license was in evaluation mode. Kindly check and upgrade
>> CI details were not added properly
>>Alerts configuration was in the OFF state. Kindly ON it.
>> All hosts, Management and vMotion network is connected to vDS as per standard should be in vSS
>> Hence assigning ticket back to build team
 
New Esxi build.

UEFI Boot Enable
TPM Disable 
FIrmware & IDRAC N-1
SAN Boot enable
Std passwd
NTP Configuration
IDRAC Alerts & SNMP Configuration

NTP Servers for Viatris:10.250.26.17,10.250.26.18,172.20.25.231,172.26.208.10,172.28.135.37,10.248.21.57

vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/OVF/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP.ovf" "vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP_new1

Src:W5HFP001-172.18.61.16-->Dest:e5hrr2u23.myl.com-172.29.127.150

Cannot complete the configuration of the vSphere HA agent on the host. "Applying HA VIBs on the cluster encountered a failure". 
Failed installing HA component on the host: host-574414 An error occurred while downloading depot metadata from 
http://WB5VC001.myl.com:9084/vum/repository/hostupdate/vmw/metadata-143.zip.

/vmfs/volumes/67becb46-1355ab31-371a-303ea71fc864

/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U21

5H Asendis IDRAC & BIOS N-1 Version

7.10.90.00, A00-IDRAC
2.3.5-BIOS

Summary: New Build Transition | CHG0180537 | Build to Run | ESXi || e5hrr2u23
Analysis and findings:

Hardware observation
>> The fiber channel version was lower version Kindly upgrade to latest 03.08.24-Taken Care
>>PERC H965i is in a lower version; kindly upgrade to N-1 version-Taken Care
>>Kindly add the host in the domain.-Taken Care
>> The license was in evaluation mode. Kindly check and upgrade-Senthil wil take care.
>> CI details were not added properly
>>Alerts configuration was in the OFF state. Kindly ON it.-Taken Care
>> All hosts, Management and vMotion network is connected to vDS as per standard should be in vSS-Only 1physical adapters are there so we have configured under distributed switch.

e5hrr2u25.myl.com-Done
e5hrr2u23.myl.com-Done
e5hrr2u21.myl.com-Done
e5hrr2u19.myl.com-Done

HUN-5DKOM
IDRAC IP:10.6.177.11
Hostname:u5dpnbmep003	
			                                     Switch Ports		
Hostname	Make & Model	Serial Number	FOC2431L517	FOC2431L50Y	
e5drr15u18.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R750	BWTDKY3	Te1/0/1 	Te2/0/1	
e5drr15u20.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R750	CWTDKY3	Te1/0/2 	Te2/0/2 	
e5dr15u10.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R740	80YR6J3	Te1/0/3 	Te2/0/4 	
e5dr15u12.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R740	70YR6J3	Te1/0/13 	Te2/0/13 	

e5dr15u30
e5dr15u32

IP Address Details: -
ESXi Host Name :  e5dr15u30
ESXi Management IP: 172.18.86.92
vMotion IP : 172.18.86.101
iSCSI IP:  172.18.86.95
CIMC IP: 172.18.86.98
- Server Name:  e5dr15u30
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078S

IP Address Details: -
ESXi Host Name :  e5dr15u32
ESXi Management IP: 172.18.86.93
vMotion IP : 172.18.86.102
iSCSI IP:  172.18.86.96
- Server Name:  e5dr15u32
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078Z

- Server Name:  e5dr15u30
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078S

- Server Name:  e5dr15u32
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078Z

Esxi Default creds:
 "PASSW0RD" ("0" = numeric zero). For ESXi 6.7 the default root code is "P@ssw0rd" ("@" = at sign; "0" = numeric zero) or it is blank (that is, no password).

slmgr /upk to uninstall the key, 
and then use slmgr /ipk <your_product_key> and 
slmgr /ato to reactivate it. 

DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /RestoreHealth
DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /StartComponentCleanup
sfc /scannow
DISM /online /get-packages

208204316-DELL Case for 5D-KOM

"If you're adding existing NFS datastores to the new hosts just Mount the additional hosts-->action from the datastore.." 
Rescan the STORAGE.
Refresh the STORAGE.

22. What is the rsync command, and how do you use this command for synchronization?
The rsync command is used to synchronize and transfer the files in Linux. It synchronizes files between two local systems, directories, or a network. The basic rsync command contains the following:

rsync <options> <source> <destination>
For example, let’s synchronize between Documents and the Downloads directory. For this, you need to run the following command:

rsync -av ~/Documents ~/Downloads
If you want to go one step further, then you can use the below command:

rsync -avz --delete ~/Documents ~/Downloads

Linux interview questions:
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/linux-interview-questions/
 
tar -czvf jayesh.tar.gz files
tar -xzvf jayesh.tar.gz
 
net user m676098 /domain

Tanveer=2k/-
Milkshop=500/-
Sudeeksha=5k/-
Chetan=10k/-
G M V=16,670/-

gosangi lakshmi

Roles & Responsibilites in Brillio: 

Gosangi Lakshmi: 9980905302 
 
=======
esxcli network nic list
esxcli network nic get -n vmnic0
esxcli software vib list | grep gb

[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic get -n vmnic2
   Advertised Auto Negotiation: true
   Advertised Link Modes: Auto, 1000BaseT/Full, 100BaseT/Full, 100BaseT/Half, 10BaseT/Full, 10BaseT/Half
   Auto Negotiation: true
   Backing DPUId: N/A
   Cable Type: Twisted Pair
   Current Message Level: 0
   Driver Info:
         Bus Info: 0000:01:00:0
         Driver: igbn
         Firmware Version: 1.67.0:0x800010e0:22.5.7
         Version: 1.12.0.0
   Link Detected: false
   Link Status: Down
   Name: vmnic2
   PHYAddress: 0
   Pause Autonegotiate: true
   Pause RX: true
   Pause TX: true
   Supported Ports: TP
   Supports Auto Negotiation: true
   Supports Pause: true
   Supports Wakeon: false
   Transceiver: internal
   Virtual Address: 00:50:56:5c:60:09
   Wakeon: None
   
[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic get -n vmnic5
   Advertised Auto Negotiation: true
   Advertised Link Modes: Auto, 10000BaseSR/Full
   Auto Negotiation: true
   Backing DPUId: N/A
   Cable Type: FIBRE
   Current Message Level: 0
   Driver Info:
         Bus Info: 0000:18:00:1
         Driver: i40en
         Firmware Version: 9.40 0x8000e9c2 22.5.7
         Version: 2.8.4.0
   Link Detected: true
   Link Status: Up
   Name: vmnic5
   PHYAddress: 0
   Pause Autonegotiate: false
   Pause RX: true
   Pause TX: true
   Supported Ports: FIBRE
   Supports Auto Negotiation: true
   Supports Pause: true
   Supports Wakeon: false
   Transceiver:
   Virtual Address: 00:50:56:59:df:98
   Wakeon: None
   
[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic list
Name    PCI Device    Driver  Admin Status  Link Status  Speed  Duplex  MAC Address         MTU  Description
------  ------------  ------  ------------  -----------  -----  ------  -----------------  ----  -----------
vmnic2  0000:01:00.0  igbn    Up            Down             0  Half    78:ac:44:84:e5:3c  1500  Intel(R) I350 Gigabit Network Connection
vmnic3  0000:01:00.1  igbn    Up            Down             0  Half    78:ac:44:84:e5:3d  1500  Intel(R) I350 Gigabit Network Connection
vmnic4  0000:18:00.0  i40en   Up            Up           10000  Full    6c:fe:54:24:f9:90  1500  Intel(R) Ethernet Controller X710 for 10GbE SFP+
vmnic5  0000:18:00.1  i40en   Up            Up           10000  Full    6c:fe:54:24:f9:91  1500  Intel(R) Ethernet Controller X710 for 10GbE SFP+

[root@ec6rr0u19:~] esxcli network nic get -n vmnic2


N/W Data Cable modfication for DELL PowerEdge 740 for 1 server:

Total 4 ports conneted with (1ENT+1MFG & 1ENT+1MFG)
Now we have to segregate like 
2NIC slots for ENT(1Gig)
2PCIe slots for MFG(10Gig)


network.firewall.ruleset                            list              List the rulesets in
                                                                      firewall.
network.firewall.ruleset.rule                       list              List the rules of each
                                                                      ruleset in firewall.
network.firewall.ruleset                            set               Set firewall ruleset
                                                                      status (allowedAll flag
                                                                      and enabled status).
network.firewall                                    set               Set firewall enabled
                                                                      status and default action.
network.firewall                                    unload            Allow unload firewall
                                                                      module.
network.ip.connection                               list              List active TCP/IP
                                                                      connections
network.ip.dns.search                               add               Add a search domain to the
                                                                      list of domains to be
                                                                      searched when trying to
                                                                      resolve an host name on
                                                                      the ESXi host.
network.ip.dns.search                               list              List the search domains
                                                                      currently configured on
                                                                      the ESXi host in the order
                                                                      in which they will be used
                                                                      when searching.
network.ip.dns.search                               remove            Remove a search domain
                                                                      from the list of domains
                                                                      to be searched when trying
                                                                      to resolve an host name on
                                                                      the ESXi host.
network.ip.dns.server                               add               Add a new DNS server to
                                                                      the end of the list of DNS      15 esxcli network ip connection list
                                                                                                      16 esxcli network ip interface ipv4 address list
0  esxcli network nic list
   1 esxcli network nic list
   2 esxcli system module list | grep igbn
   3 tail -f /var/log/vmkernel.log | grep -i eth
   4 esxcli system module list | grep igbn
   5 lspci -vv | grep -i eth
   6 esxcli system module info --module=igbn
   7 esxcli system module get --module igbn
   8 history

                                                                      servers to use for this
                                                                      ESXi host.
network.ip.dns.server                               list              Print a list of the DNS
                                                                      server currently
                                                                      configured on the system
                                                                      in the order in which they
                                                                      will be used.
network.ip.dns.server                               remove            Remove a DNS server from
                                                                      the list of DNS servers to
                                                                      use for this ESXi host.
network.ip                                          get               Get global IP settings
network.ip.hosts                                    add               Add association of IP
                                                                      addresses with host names.
network.ip.hosts                                    list              List the user specified
                                                                      associations of IP
                                                                      addresses with host names.
network.ip.hosts                                    remove            Remove association of IP
                                                                      addresses with host names.
network.ip.interface                                add               Add a new VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv4.address                   list              List the IPv4 addresses
                                                                      assigned to VMkernel
                                                                      network interfaces.
network.ip.interface.ipv4                           get               List the IPv4 addresses
                                                                      assigned to VMkernel
                                                                      network interfaces.
network.ip.interface.ipv4                           set               Configure IPv4 setting for
                                                                      a given VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv6.address                   add               Add a static IPv6 address
                                                                      to a given VMkernel
                                                                      network interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv6.address                   list              This command will list all
                                                                      of the IPv6 addresses
                                                                      currently assigned to the
                                                                      system
network.ip.interface.ipv6.address                   remove            Remove an IPv6 address
                                                                      from a given VMkernel
                                                                      network interface.
network.ip.interface.ipv6                           get               Get IPv6 settings for
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interfaces. This does not
                                                                      include the IPv6 addresses
                                                                      which can be found in the
                                                                      "address list" command.
network.ip.interface.ipv6                           set               Configure IPv6 settings
                                                                      for a given VMkernel
                                                                      network interface.
network.ip.interface                                list              This command will list the
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interfaces currently known
                                                                      to the system.
network.ip.interface                                remove            Remove a VMkernel network
                                                                      interface from the ESXi
                                                                      host. A VMKernel network
                                                                      interface can be uniquely
                                                                      specified by --interface-
                                                                      name or --portgroup-name
                                                                      or --dvs-name/--dvport-id.
                                                                      i.e. Providing its name or
                                                                      its connection point are
                                                                      two ways to uniquely
                                                                      specify a VMKernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface                                set               This command sets the
                                                                      enabled status and MTU
                                                                      size of a given IP
                                                                      interface
network.ip.interface.tag                            add               Adds a tag on a given
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interface. Supported tags
                                                                      are: Management, VMotion,
                                                                      faultToleranceLogging,
                                                                      vSphereReplication,
                                                                      vSphereReplicationNFC,
                                                                      vSphereProvisioning, VSAN,
                                                                      VSANWitness,
                                                                      vSphereBackupNFC,
                                                                      PrecisionTimeProtocol,
                                                                      NVMeTCP, NVMeRDMA
network.ip.interface.tag                            get               Gets the tags set on the
                                                                      given VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.interface.tag                            remove            Removes a tag on a given
                                                                      VMkernel network
                                                                      interface.
network.ip.ipsec.sa                                 add               Add a Security
                                                                      Association.
network.ip.ipsec.sa                                 list              List configured Security
                                                                      Associations
network.ip.ipsec.sa                                 remove            Operation to remove
                                                                      Security Association(s)
network.ip.ipsec.sp                                 add               Add a Security Policy.
network.ip.ipsec.sp                                 list              List configured Security
                                                                      Policys
network.ip.ipsec.sp                                 remove            Operation to remove
                                                                      Security Policy
network.ip.neighbor                                 list              List ARP table entries
network.ip.neighbor                                 remove            Remove ARP table entries
network.ip.netstack                                 add               Add a new Netstack
                                                                      Instance.
network.ip.netstack                                 get               Get runtime/configuration
                                                                      settings for a given
                                                                      Netstack Instance.
network.ip.netstack                                 list              This command will list the
                                                                      VMkernel Netstack
                                                                      instances currently known
                                                                      to the system.
network.ip.netstack                                 remove            Remove a new Netstack
                                                                      Instance.
network.ip.netstack                                 set               Configure settings for a
                                                                      given Netstack Instance.
network.ip.route.ipv4                               add               Add IPv4 route to the
                                                                      VMkernel.
network.ip.route.ipv4                               list              List configured IPv4
                                                                      routes
network.ip.route.ipv4                               remove            Remove IPv4 route
network.ip.route.ipv6                               add               Add IPv6 route to the
                                                                      VMkernel.
network.ip.route.ipv6                               list              List configured IPv6
                                                                      routes
network.ip.route.ipv6                               remove            Remove IPv6 route from the
                                                                      VMkernel
network.ip                                          set               Update global IP settings
network.multicast.group                             list              List all the multicast
                                                                      group members.
network.nic.attachment                              add               Attach one uplink as a
                                                                      branch to a trunk uplink
                                                                      with specified VLAN ID.
network.nic.attachment                              list              Show uplink attachment
                                                                      information.
network.nic.attachment                              remove            Detach a branch uplink
                                                                      from its trunk.
network.nic.coalesce                                get               Get coalesce parameters
network.nic.coalesce.high                           get               Get information about the
                                                                      behavior of a NIC when it
                                                                      sends or receives packets
                                                                      at high packet rate.
network.nic.coalesce.high                           set               Set parameters to control
                                                                      the behavior of a NIC when
                                                                      it sends or receives
                                                                      packets at high packet
                                                                      rate.
network.nic.coalesce.low                            get               Get information about the
                                                                      behavior of a NIC when it
                                                                      sends or receives packets
                                                                      at low packet rate.
network.nic.coalesce.low                            set               Set parameters to control
                                                                      the behavior of a NIC when
                                                                      it sends or receives
                                                                      packets at low packet
                                                                      rate.
network.nic.coalesce                                set               Set coalesce parameters on
                                                                      a nic
network.nic.cso                                     get               Get checksum offload
                                                                      settings
network.nic.cso                                     set               Set checksum offload
                                                                      settings on a nic, which
                                                                      is not persistent.
network.nic.dcb.status                              get               Get the DCB information
                                                                      for a NIC.
network.nic                                         down              Bring down the specified
                                                                      network device.
network.nic.eeprom                                  change            Change EEPROM on a nic
network.nic.eeprom                                  dump              Dump device EEPROM
network.nic                                         get               Get the generic
                                                                      configuration of a network
                                                                      device
network.nic.hwCap.activated                         list              List activated hardware
                                                                      capabilities of physical
                                                                      NICs.
network.nic.hwCap.supported                         list              List supported hardware
                                                                      capabilities of physical
                                                                      NICs.
network.nic                                         list              This command will list the
                                                                      Physical NICs currently
                                                                      installed and loaded on
                                                                      the system.
network.nic.negotiate                               restart           Restart N-Way negotiation
                                                                      on a nic
network.nic.pauseParams                             list              List pause parameters of
                                                                      all NICs
network.nic.pauseParams                             set               Set pause parameters for a
                                                                      NIC
network.nic.queue.count                             get               Get netqueue count on a
                                                                      nic
network.nic.queue.count                             set               Set number of netqueues on
                                                                      a nic
network.nic.queue.filterclass                       list              List the netqueue
                                                                      supported filterclass of
                                                                      all physical NICs
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system.
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer                      list              List the load balancer
                                                                      settings of all the
                                                                      installed and loaded
                                                                      physical NICs.
                                                                      (S:supported,
                                                                      U:unsupported, N:not-
                                                                      applicable, A:allowed,
                                                                      D:disallowed).
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.plugin               list              Details of netqueue
                                                                      balancer plugins on all
                                                                      physical NICs currently
                                                                      installed and loaded on
                                                                      the system
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.plugin               set               Enable/disable netqueue
                                                                      balancer plugin on a NIC
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer                      set               Enable/disable netqueue
                                                                      load balancer setting on a
                                                                      NIC.
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.state                list              Netqueue balancer state of
                                                                      all physical NICs
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system
network.nic.queue.loadbalancer.state                set               Enable/disable netqueue
                                                                      balancer on a NIC
network.nic.register                                dump              Dump device registers
network.nic.ring.current                            get               Get current RX/TX ring
                                                                      buffer parameters of a NIC
network.nic.ring.current                            set               Set current RX/TX ring
                                                                      buffer parameters of a NIC
network.nic.ring.preset                             get               Get preset maximums for
                                                                      RX/TX ring buffer
                                                                      parameters of a NIC.
network.nic.selftest                                run               Run self test
network.nic                                         set               Set the general options
                                                                      for the specified ethernet
                                                                      device.
network.nic.sg                                      get               Get scatter-gather
                                                                      settings
network.nic.sg                                      set               Set scatter-gatter
                                                                      settings on a nic, which
                                                                      is not persistent.
network.nic.software                                list              List software simulation
                                                                      settings of physical NICs
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system.
network.nic.software                                set               Enable and disable
                                                                      software simulation
                                                                      settings on a NIC.
network.nic.stats                                   get               Get NIC statistics for a
                                                                      given interface.
network.nic.tso                                     get               Get TCP segmentation
                                                                      offload settings
network.nic.tso                                     set               Set TCP segmentation
                                                                      offload settings on a nic,
                                                                      which is not persistent.
network.nic                                         up                Bring up the specified
                                                                      network device.
network.nic.vlan.stats                              get               List VLAN statistics for
                                                                      active VLAN's on the NIC.
network.nic.vlan.stats                              set               Enable/disable VLAN
                                                                      statistics collection on
                                                                      the NIC.
network.port.filter.stats                           get               Filter statistics for a
                                                                      given port.
network.port.stats                                  get               Packet statistics for a
                                                                      given port.
network.sriovnic                                    list              This command will list the
                                                                      SRIOV Enabled NICs (PFs)
                                                                      currently installed and
                                                                      loaded on the system.
network.sriovnic.vf                                 list              Get the generic
                                                                      configuration of VFs for
                                                                      SRIOV NIC.
network.sriovnic.vf                                 stats             Get statistics for given
                                                                      VF of a SRIOV NIC.
network.vm                                          list              List networking
                                                                      information for the VM's
                                                                      that have active ports.
network.vm.port                                     list              List of active ports for a
                                                                      given VM.
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.config              get               Get LACP configuration on
                                                                      DVS
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.stats               get               Get LACP stats on DVS
                                                                      uplinks
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.status              get               Get LACP status on DVS
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware.lacp.timeout             set               Set long/short timeout for
                                                                      vmnics in one LACP LAG
network.vswitch.dvs.vmware                          list              List the VMware vSphere
                                                                      Distributed Switch
                                                                      currently configured on
                                                                      the ESXi host.
network.vswitch.standard                            add               Add a new virtual switch
                                                                      to the ESXi networking
                                                                      system.
network.vswitch.standard                            list              List the virtual switches
                                                                      current on the ESXi host.
network.vswitch.standard.policy.failover            get               Get the failover policy
                                                                      settings governing the
                                                                      given virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.policy.failover            set               Configure the Failover
                                                                      policy for a virtual
                                                                      switch.
network.vswitch.standard.policy.security            get               Get the Security Policy
                                                                      governing the given
                                                                      virtual switch.
network.vswitch.standard.policy.security            set               Set the security policy
                                                                      for a given virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.policy.shaping             get               Get the shaping policy
                                                                      settings for the given
                                                                      virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.policy.shaping             set               Set the shaping policy
                                                                      settings for the given
                                                                      virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  add               Allows the addition of a
                                                                      standard port group to a
                                                                      virtual switch.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  list              List all of the port
                                                                      groups currently on the
                                                                      system.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.failover  get               Get the network failover
                                                                      policy settings governing
                                                                      the given port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.failover  set               Configure the Failover
                                                                      policy for a port group.
                                                                      These setting may
                                                                      potentially override
                                                                      virtual switch settings.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.security  get               Get the Security Policy
                                                                      governing the given port
                                                                      group.
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.security  set               Set the security policy
                                                                      for a given port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.shaping   get               Get the network shaping
                                                                      policy settings governing
                                                                      the given port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup.policy.shaping   set               Set the shaping policy
                                                                      settings for the given
                                                                      port group
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  remove            Remove a port group from
                                                                      the given virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.portgroup                  set               Set the vlan id for the
                                                                      given port group
network.vswitch.standard                            remove            Remove a virtual switch
                                                                      from the ESXi networking
                                                                      system.
network.vswitch.standard                            set               This command sets the MTU
                                                                      size and CDP status of a
                                                                      given virtual switch.
network.vswitch.standard.uplink                     add               Add an uplink to the given
                                                                      virtual switch. Note if
                                                                      this virtual switch has a
                                                                      NIC teaming policy
                                                                      assigned to it then the
                                                                      policy must also be
                                                                      modified to enable use of
                                                                      this uplink on this
                                                                      virtual switch
network.vswitch.standard.uplink                     remove            Remove an uplink from the
                                                                      given virtual switch. Note
                                                                      if this virtual switch has
                                                                      a NIC teaming policy
                                                                      assigned to it then the
                                                                      policy must also be
                                                                      modified to disable use of
                                                                      this uplink on this
                                                                      virtual switch
nvme.adapter                                        list              List all NVMe adapters.
nvme.controller                                     identify          Get NVMe Identify
                                                                      Controller data (CNS 1h).
nvme.controller                                     list              List NVMe controllers.
nvme.device.config                                  list              List the configurable
                                                                      parameters for this plugin
nvme.device.config                                  set               Set the plugin's parameter
nvme.device.controller                              list              List all controllers on
                                                                      the device if namespace is
                                                                      not specified, otherwise
                                                                      list all controllers the
                                                                      namespace attached
nvme.device.feature.aec                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      async event configuration
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.aec                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      async event configuration
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.apst                            get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      autonomous power state
                                                                      transition information
nvme.device.feature.ar                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      arbitration information
nvme.device.feature.ar                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      arbitration information
nvme.device.feature                                 cap               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      supported capabilities
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.er                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      error recovery information
nvme.device.feature.er                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      error recovery information
nvme.device.feature                                 get               Get NVMe device feature
nvme.device.feature.hi                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      host identifier
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.hmb                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      host memory buffer
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.ic                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt coalescing
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.ic                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt coalescing
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.ivc                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt vector
                                                                      configuration information
nvme.device.feature.ivc                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      interrupt vector
                                                                      configuration information
nvme.device.feature.kat                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      keep alive timer
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.kat                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      keep alive timer
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.lba                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      LBA range type information
nvme.device.feature.nq                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      number of queue
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.pm                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      power management
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.pm                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      power management
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature                                 set               Set NVMe device feature
nvme.device.feature.spm                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      software progress marker
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.spm                             set               Set software progress
                                                                      marker feature
                                                                      information, will clear
                                                                      Pre-boot Software Load
                                                                      Count (PBSLC) to 0
nvme.device.feature.tt                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      temperature threshold
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.tt                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      temperature threshold
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.vwc                             get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      volatile write cache
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.vwc                             set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      volatile write cache
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.wa                              get               Get NVMe device feature
                                                                      write atomicity
                                                                      information
nvme.device.feature.wa                              set               Set NVMe device feature
                                                                      write atomicity
                                                                      information
nvme.device.firmware                                activate          Commit downloaded firmware
                                                                      image to a specific slot
nvme.device.firmware                                download          Download firmware image to
                                                                      the device
nvme.device                                         get               Get NVMe device
                                                                      information
nvme.device                                         list              List NVMe devices
                                                                      registered to VMware NVMe
                                                                      driver
nvme.device.log.error                               get               Get NVMe device error log
                                                                      information
nvme.device.log.fwslot                              get               Get NVMe device firmware
                                                                      slot log information
nvme.device.log                                     get               Get NVMe log page
nvme.device.log.persistentevent                     get               Get NVMe persistent event
                                                                      log
nvme.device.log.smart                               get               Get NVMe device SMART log
                                                                      information
nvme.device.log.telemetry.controller                get               Get NVMe telemetry
                                                                      controller-initiated data
nvme.device.log.telemetry.host                      get               Get NVMe telemetry host-
                                                                      initiated data
nvme.device.namespace                               attach            Attach namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               create            Create namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               delete            Delete namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               detach            Detach namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.namespace                               format            Change namespace format
nvme.device.namespace                               get               Get nvme namespace
                                                                      information
nvme.device.namespace                               list              List namespace on NVMe
                                                                      device
nvme.device.register                                get               Dump NVMe device registers
nvme.device.timeout                                 get               Get timeout value of IO
                                                                      timeout checker
nvme.device.timeout                                 set               Set timeout value for IO
                                                                      timeout checker
nvme.driver.loglevel                                set               Set NVMe driver log level
                                                                      and debug level
nvme.fabrics                                        connect           Connect to an NVMe
                                                                      controller on a specified
                                                                      target through an adapter.
nvme.fabrics.connection                             delete            Delete persistent NVMe
                                                                      over Fabrics connection
                                                                      entries. Reboot required
                                                                      for settings to take
                                                                      effect.
nvme.fabrics.connection                             list              List all persistent NVMe
                                                                      over Fabrics connection
                                                                      entries.
nvme.fabrics                                        disable           Disable NVMe over Fabrics
                                                                      for a transport protocol.
nvme.fabrics                                        disconnect        Disconnect specified NVMe
                                                                      controller(s) on the
                                                                      specified NVMe adapter.
nvme.fabrics                                        discover          Discover NVMe controllers
                                                                      on the specified target
                                                                      port through the specified
                                                                      NVMe adapter and list all
                                                                      of them.
nvme.fabrics                                        enable            Enable NVMe over Fabrics
                                                                      for a transport protocol.
nvme.info                                           get               Get NVMe host information.
nvme.info                                           set               Set NVMe host information.
nvme.namespace                                      identify          Get NVMe Identify
                                                                      Namespace data (CNS 0h).
nvme.namespace                                      list              List all NVMe namespaces.
rdma.device                                         list              List the logical RDMA
                                                                      devices currently
                                                                      registered on the system.
rdma.device.protocol                                list              List the enabled RDMA
                                                                      protocols.
rdma.device.stats                                   get               Get statistics for a given
                                                                      RDMA device.
rdma.device.vmknic                                  list              List the vmknics
                                                                      associated with RDMA
                                                                      devices.
rdma.iser                                           add               Add an iSER device to
                                                                      enable iser module driver.
rdma.iser                                           delete            Delete an iser logical
                                                                      device.
rdma.iser.params                                    set               Change iSER kernel driver
                                                                      settings. (This operation
                                                                      is deprecated.)
sched.reliablemem                                   get               Check if the system is
                                                                      currently aware of
                                                                      reliable memory.
sched.swap.system                                   get               Get current state of the
                                                                      options of the system-wide
                                                                      shared swap space.
sched.swap.system                                   set               Change the configuration
                                                                      of system-wide shared swap
                                                                      space.
software.acceptance                                 get               Gets the host acceptance
                                                                      level. This controls what
                                                                      VIBs will be allowed on a
                                                                      host.
software.acceptance                                 set               Sets the host acceptance
                                                                      level. This controls what
                                                                      VIBs will be allowed on a
                                                                      host.
software.addon                                      get               Display the installed
                                                                      Addon on the host and the
                                                                      managed DPU(s).
software                                            apply             Applies a complete image
                                                                      with a software spec that
                                                                      specifies base image,
                                                                      addon and components to
                                                                      install on the host.
software.baseimage                                  get               Display the installed
                                                                      baseimage on the host.
software.component                                  apply             Installs Component
                                                                      packages from a depot.
                                                                      Components may be
                                                                      installed, upgraded.
                                                                      WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.component                                  get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more installed Components
                                                                      on host and managed
                                                                      DPU(s).
software.component                                  list              Lists the installed
                                                                      Component packages on the
                                                                      host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s).
software.component                                  remove            Removes components from
                                                                      the host. WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.component.signature                        verify            Verifies the signatures of
                                                                      installed Components on
                                                                      the host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s) and displays the
                                                                      name, version, vendor,
                                                                      acceptance level and the
                                                                      result of signature
                                                                      verification for each of
                                                                      them.
software.component.vib                              list              List VIBs in an installed
                                                                      Component on the host and
                                                                      the managed DPU(s).
software.profile                                    get               Display the installed
                                                                      image profile on host and
                                                                      managed DPU(s).
software.profile                                    install           Installs or applies an
                                                                      image profile from a depot
                                                                      to this host. This command
                                                                      completely replaces the
                                                                      installed image with the
                                                                      image defined by the new
                                                                      image profile, and may
                                                                      result in the loss of
                                                                      installed VIBs. The common
                                                                      vibs between host and
                                                                      image profile will be
                                                                      skipped. To preserve
                                                                      installed VIBs, use
                                                                      profile update instead.
                                                                      WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.profile                                    update            Updates the host with VIBs
                                                                      from an image profile in a
                                                                      depot. Installed VIBs may
                                                                      be upgraded (or downgraded
                                                                      if --allow-downgrades is
                                                                      specified), but they will
                                                                      not be removed. Any VIBs
                                                                      in the image profile which
                                                                      are not related to any
                                                                      installed VIBs will be
                                                                      added to the host.
                                                                      WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.profile                                    validate          Validates the current
                                                                      image profile on the host
                                                                      and managed DPU(s) against
                                                                      an image profile in a
                                                                      depot.
software.sources.addon                              get               Display details about
                                                                      Addons in the depots.
software.sources.addon                              list              List all Addons in the
                                                                      depots.
software.sources.baseimage                          get               Display details about a
                                                                      Base Image from the depot.
software.sources.baseimage                          list              List all the Base Images
                                                                      in a depot.
software.sources.component                          get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more Components in the
                                                                      depot
software.sources.component                          list              List all the Components
                                                                      from depots.
software.sources.component.vib                      list              List VIB packages in the
                                                                      specified Component in a
                                                                      depot.
software.sources.profile                            get               Display details about an
                                                                      image profile from the
                                                                      depot.
software.sources.profile                            list              List all the image
                                                                      profiles in a depot.
software.sources.vib                                get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more VIB packages in the
                                                                      depot
software.sources.vib                                list              List all the VIBs from
                                                                      depots.
software.vib                                        get               Displays detailed
                                                                      information about one or
                                                                      more installed VIBs on the
                                                                      host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s).
software.vib                                        install           Installs VIB packages from
                                                                      a URL or depot. VIBs may
                                                                      be installed, upgraded, or
                                                                      downgraded. WARNING: If
                                                                      your installation requires
                                                                      a reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.vib                                        list              Lists the installed VIB
                                                                      packages on the host and
                                                                      the managed DPU(s).
software.vib                                        remove            Removes VIB packages from
                                                                      the host. WARNING: If your
                                                                      installation requires a
                                                                      reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
software.vib.signature                              verify            Verifies the signatures of
                                                                      installed VIB packages on
                                                                      the host and the managed
                                                                      DPU(s) and displays the
                                                                      name, version, vendor,
                                                                      acceptance level and the
                                                                      result of signature
                                                                      verification for each of
                                                                      them
software.vib                                        update            Update installed VIBs to
                                                                      newer VIB packages. No new
                                                                      VIBs will be installed,
                                                                      only updates. WARNING: If
                                                                      your installation requires
                                                                      a reboot, you need to
                                                                      disable HA first.
storage.core.adapter.capabilities                   list              List the capabilities of
                                                                      the SCSI HBAs in the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.adapter.device                         list              List the devices
                                                                      associated with HBAs.
storage.core.adapter                                list              List all the SCSI Host Bus
                                                                      Adapters on the system.
storage.core.adapter                                rescan            Rescan SCSI HBAs to search
                                                                      for new Devices, remove
                                                                      DEAD paths and update path
                                                                      state. This operation will
                                                                      also run an claim
                                                                      operation equivalent to
                                                                      the claimrule run command
                                                                      and a filesystem rescan.
storage.core.adapter.stats                          get               List the SCSI stats for
                                                                      the SCSI Host Bus Adapters
                                                                      in the system.
storage.core.claiming                               autoclaim         Control the automatic PSA
                                                                      (path/device) claiming
                                                                      code allowing the
                                                                      disabling of the automatic
                                                                      claiming process or re-
                                                                      enabling of the claiming
                                                                      process if it was
                                                                      previously disabled. By
                                                                      default the automatic PSA
                                                                      claiming process is on and
                                                                      should not be disabled by
                                                                      users unless specifically
                                                                      instructed to do so.
storage.core.claiming                               reclaim            Attempt to unclaim all
                                                                      paths to a device and then
                                                                      run the loaded claimrules
                                                                      on each of the paths
                                                                      unclaimed to attempt to
                                                                      reclaim them.
storage.core.claiming                               unclaim           1) Unclaim a path or set
                                                                      of paths, disassociating
                                                                      them from a PSA plugin.
                                                                      NOTES:  It is normal for
                                                                      path claiming to fail
                                                                      especially when unclaiming
                                                                      by plugin or adapter. Only
                                                                      inactive paths with no I/O
                                                                      will be able to be
                                                                      unclaimed. Typically the
                                                                      ESXi USB partition and
                                                                      devices with VMFS volumes
                                                                      on them will not be
                                                                      unclaimable. Also NOTE
                                                                      unclaiming will not
                                                                      persist and periodic path
                                                                      claiming will reclaim
                                                                      these paths in the near
                                                                      future unless claim rules
                                                                      are configured to mask the
                                                                      path. 2) Detach a (set of)
                                                                      filter(s) from one or more
                                                                      devices.
storage.core.claimrule                              add               Add a claimrule to the set
                                                                      of claimrules on the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.claimrule                              convert           Convert ESX 3.x style
                                                                      /adv/Disk/MaskLUNs LUN
                                                                      masks to Claim Rule
                                                                      format. WARNING: This
                                                                      conversion will not work
                                                                      for all input MaskLUNs
                                                                      variations! Please inspect
                                                                      the list of generated
                                                                      claim rules carefuly, then
                                                                      if the suggested LUN mask
                                                                      claim rules are correct
                                                                      use the --commit parameter
                                                                      to write the list to the
                                                                      config file.
storage.core.claimrule                              list              List all the claimrules on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.claimrule                              load              Load path claiming rules
                                                                      from config file into the
                                                                      VMkernel.
storage.core.claimrule                              move              Move a claimrule from one
                                                                      rule id to another
storage.core.claimrule                              remove            Delete a claimrule to the
                                                                      set of claimrules on the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.claimrule                              run               Execute path claiming
                                                                      rules.
storage.core.device.capacity                        list              List capacity information
                                                                      for the known storage
                                                                      devices.
storage.core.device.detached                        list              Lists all devices that
                                                                      were detached manually by
                                                                      changing their state on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.device.detached                        remove            Provide control to allow a
                                                                      user to remove Detached
                                                                      devices from the
                                                                      persistent detached device
                                                                      list.
storage.core.device.inquirycache                    list              List inquiry cache
                                                                      information for the known
                                                                      storage devices.
storage.core.device.inquirycache                    set               Manipulate inquiry cache
                                                                      settings of storage
                                                                      devices.
storage.core.device.latencythreshold                list              List latency sensitive
                                                                      threshold for the known
                                                                      storage devices.
storage.core.device.latencythreshold                set               Set latency sensitive
                                                                      threshold for devices.
                                                                      This option is applicable
                                                                      only for devices claimed
                                                                      by MPPs that support
                                                                      fastpath. The device(s)
                                                                      can be selected based on
                                                                      the mutually exclusive
                                                                      parameters device name,
                                                                      vendor/model, NVMe
                                                                      controller model (For NVMe
                                                                      devices), PCIe vendor
                                                                      ID/PCIe sub vendor ID. See
                                                                      the examples for more
                                                                      details.
storage.core.device                                 list              List the devices currently
                                                                      registered with the PSA.
storage.core.device.partition                       list              For a given device list
                                                                      all of the partitions
storage.core.device.partition                       showguid          For a given device list
                                                                      the GUID for GPT
                                                                      partitions
storage.core.device.physical                        get               Get information about a
                                                                      physical storage device.
storage.core.device                                 purge             Removes storage devices
                                                                      which have not been seen
                                                                      in some time interval.
storage.core.device.raid                            list              List the physical devices
                                                                      that compose a given
                                                                      logical device.
storage.core.device                                 set               Modify the state of a
                                                                      storage device.
storage.core.device                                 setconfig         Set device configuration
storage.core.device.smart.daemon                    start             Enable smartd.
storage.core.device.smart.daemon.status             get               Get status of smartd.
storage.core.device.smart.daemon                    stop              Disable smartd.
storage.core.device.smart                           get               List Smart device
                                                                      parameters.
storage.core.device.smart.status                    get               Get status of SMART stats
                                                                      on a device.
storage.core.device.smart.status                    set               Enable or disable SMART
                                                                      stats gathering on a
                                                                      device.
storage.core.device.stats                           get               List the SCSI stats for
                                                                      SCSI Devices in the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.device.uidmap                          list              Get a mapping between a
                                                                      device's primary UID and
                                                                      the alternative UIDs for
                                                                      that device on the system.
storage.core.device.vaai.ats                        list              List the ATS VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.vaai.clone                      list              List the Clone VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.vaai.delete                     list              List the Delete VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.vaai.status                     get               List VAAI properties for
                                                                      devices currently
                                                                      registered with the PSA.
storage.core.device.vaai.status                     set               Enable/Disable VAAI
                                                                      operations on local SCSI
                                                                      disks. (NOTE: A request to
                                                                      enable an operation will
                                                                      take effect only if the
                                                                      underlying device supports
                                                                      the VAAI operation.)
storage.core.device.vaai.zero                       list              List the Zero VAAI
                                                                      attributes (as per SCSI
                                                                      standard) for the devices.
storage.core.device.world                           list              Get a list of the worlds
                                                                      that are currently using
                                                                      devices on the ESX host.
storage.core.nvme.device                            list              List the NVMe devices
                                                                      currently registered with
                                                                      the PSA.
storage.core.nvme.path                              list              List all the NVMe paths on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.path                                   list              List all the storage paths
                                                                      on the system.
storage.core.path                                   set               Provide control to allow a
                                                                      user to modify a single
                                                                      path's state. This
                                                                      efffectively allows a user
                                                                      to enable or disable
                                                                      storage paths. The user is
                                                                      not able to change the
                                                                      full range of path states,
                                                                      but can toggle between
                                                                      'active' and 'off'. Please
                                                                      NOTE changing the Path
                                                                      state on any path that is
                                                                      the only path to a given
                                                                      device is likely to fail.
                                                                      The VMkernel will not
                                                                      change the path's state if
                                                                      changing the state would
                                                                      cause an 'All paths down'
                                                                      state or the device is
                                                                      currently in use.
storage.core.path.stats                             get               List the SCSI stats for
                                                                      the SCSI Paths in the
                                                                      system.
storage.core.plugin                                 list              List loaded PSA plugins on
                                                                      the system.
storage.core.plugin.registration                    add               Register a plugin module
                                                                      with PSA.
storage.core.plugin.registration                    list              List modules currently
                                                                      registered with PSA.
storage.core.plugin.registration                    remove            UnRegister a plugin module
                                                                      with PSA.
storage.core.scsi.device                            list              List the SCSI devices
                                                                      currently registered with
                                                                      the PSA.
storage.core.scsi.path                              list              List all the SCSI paths on
                                                                      the system.
storage.filesystem                                  automount         Request mounting of known
                                                                      datastores not explicitly
                                                                      unmounted.
storage.filesystem                                  list              List the volumes available
                                                                      to the host. This includes
                                                                      VMFS, NAS, VFAT and UFS
                                                                      partitions.
storage.filesystem                                  mount             Connect to and mount an
                                                                      unmounted volume on the
                                                                      ESX host.
storage.filesystem                                  rescan            Scan storage devices for
                                                                      new mountable filesystems.
storage.filesystem                                  unmount           Disconnect and unmount and
                                                                      existing VMFS or NAS
                                                                      volume. This will not
                                                                      delete the configuration
                                                                      for the volume, but will
                                                                      remove the volume from the
                                                                      list of mounted volumes.
storage.fpin.fc.adapter                             list              List FC adapters that
                                                                      support FPIN.
storage.fpin.fc                                     clear             Clear FPIN errors.
storage.fpin.fc.event                               list              List all FPIN statistics
                                                                      of FC transport.
storage.fpin.fc.stats                               get               Get the summary of FPIN
                                                                      statistics of FC
                                                                      transport.
storage.fpin.fc.target                              get               Get FC targets connected
                                                                      to a FPIN supported HBA.
storage.fpin.info                                   get               Get general FPIN
                                                                      information.
storage.fpin.info                                   set               Enable/Disable FPIN
                                                                      feature.
storage.hpp.device                                  list              List the devices currently
                                                                      controlled by the VMware
                                                                      High Performance Plugin.
storage.hpp.device                                  set               Configure settings for an
                                                                      HPP device.
storage.hpp.device.usermarkedssd                    list              List the devices that were
                                                                      marked/unmarked as SSD by
                                                                      user.
storage.hpp.path                                    list              List the paths currently
                                                                      claimed by the VMware High
                                                                      Performance Plugin
storage.iofilter                                    enable            Enable an iofilter.
storage.iofilter                                    list              List the iofilters
                                                                      installed on this host.
storage.nfs                                         add               Add a new NAS volume to
                                                                      the ESX Host and mount it
                                                                      with the given volume
                                                                      name.
storage.nfs.firewall                                add               Add a new allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entry in the nfsClient
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs.firewall                                list              List the allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entries from the nfsClient
                                                                      firewall ruleset.
storage.nfs.firewall                                remove            Remove an existing IP/Mask
                                                                      entry from the nfsClient
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs                                         list              List the NAS volumes
                                                                      currently known to the ESX
                                                                      host.
storage.nfs.param                                   get               Get the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NAS volumes.
storage.nfs.param                                   set               Set the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NAS volumes.
storage.nfs                                         remove            Remove an existing NAS
                                                                      volume from the ESX host.
storage.nfs41                                       add               Add a new NFS v4.1 volume
                                                                      to the ESX Host and mount
                                                                      it with the given volume
                                                                      name.
storage.nfs41.firewall                              add               Add a new allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entry in the nfs41Client
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs41.firewall                              list              List the allowed IP/Mask
                                                                      entries from the
                                                                      nfs41Client firewall
                                                                      ruleset.
storage.nfs41.firewall                              remove            Remove an existing IP/Mask
                                                                      entry from the nfs41Client
                                                                      firewall ruleset
storage.nfs41                                       list              List the NFS v4.1 volumes
                                                                      currently known to the ESX
                                                                      host.
storage.nfs41.param                                 get               Get the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NFS v4.1 volumes.
storage.nfs41.param                                 set               Set the volume parameters
                                                                      of the NFS v4.1 volumes.
storage.nfs41                                       remove            Remove an existing NFS
                                                                      v4.1 volume from the ESX
                                                                      host.
storage.nmp.device                                  list              List the devices currently
                                                                      controlled by the VMware
                                                                      NMP Multipath Plugin and
                                                                      show the SATP and PSP
                                                                      information associated
                                                                      with that device.
storage.nmp.device                                  set               Allow setting of the Path
                                                                      Selection Policy (PSP) for
                                                                      the given device to one of
                                                                      the loaded policies on the
                                                                      system.
storage.nmp.path                                    list              List the paths currently
                                                                      claimed by the VMware NMP
                                                                      Multipath Plugin and show
                                                                      the SATP and PSP
                                                                      information associated
                                                                      with that path.
storage.nmp.psp.fixed.deviceconfig                  get               Allow retrieving of Fixed
                                                                      Path Selection Policy
                                                                      settings for a given
                                                                      device.
storage.nmp.psp.fixed.deviceconfig                  set               Allow setting of the
                                                                      perferred path on a given
                                                                      device controlled by the
                                                                      Fixed Path Selection
                                                                      Policy.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.deviceconfig                get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      device PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.deviceconfig                set               Allow setting of per
                                                                      device PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.  This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given device with
                                                                      whichever PSP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.pathconfig                  get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      path PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.psp.generic.pathconfig                  set               Allow setting of per path
                                                                      PSP configuration
                                                                      parameters.  This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given path with
                                                                      whichever PSP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.psp                                     list              List the Path Selection
                                                                      Plugins (PSP) that are
                                                                      currently loaded into the
                                                                      NMP system and display
                                                                      information about those
                                                                      PSPs
storage.nmp.psp.roundrobin.deviceconfig             get               Allow retrieving of Round
                                                                      Robin Path Selection
                                                                      Policy settings for a
                                                                      given device.
storage.nmp.psp.roundrobin.deviceconfig             set               Allow setting of the Round
                                                                      Robin path options on a
                                                                      given device controlled by
                                                                      the Round Robin Selection
                                                                      Policy.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.deviceconfig               get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      device SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.deviceconfig               set               Allow setting of per
                                                                      device SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters. This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given device with
                                                                      whichever SATP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.pathconfig                 get               Allow retrieving of per
                                                                      path SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters.
storage.nmp.satp.generic.pathconfig                 set               Allow setting of per path
                                                                      SATP configuration
                                                                      parameters.  This command
                                                                      will set the configuration
                                                                      for the given path with
                                                                      whichever SATP it is
                                                                      currently configurated
                                                                      with.
storage.nmp.satp                                    list              List the Storage Array
                                                                      Type Plugins (SATP) that
                                                                      are currently loaded into
                                                                      the NMP system and display
                                                                      information about those
                                                                      SATPs
storage.nmp.satp.rule                               add               Add a rule to the list of
                                                                      claim rules for the given
                                                                      SATP.
storage.nmp.satp.rule                               list              List the claiming rules
                                                                      for Storage Array Type
                                                                      Plugins (SATP)
storage.nmp.satp.rule                               remove            Delete a rule from the
                                                                      list of claim rules for
                                                                      the given SATP.
storage.nmp.satp                                    set               Set the default Path
                                                                      Selection Policy for a
                                                                      given Storage Array Type
                                                                      Plugin (SATP).
storage.osdata                                      create            Create an OSData partition
                                                                      on a disk.
storage.san.fc.events                               clear             Clear events for a given
                                                                      FC adapter on the system.
storage.san.fc.events                               get               Get Events for FC Devices
storage.san.fc                                      list              List attributes of all FC
                                                                      adapters on the system.
storage.san.fc                                      reset             Perform LIP (Loop
                                                                      Initiation Primitive)
                                                                      Reset to a given FC
                                                                      adapter on the system.
storage.san.fc.stats                                get               Get statistics for a given
                                                                      FC adapter, or all FC
                                                                      adapters on the system.
storage.san.fcoe                                    list              List attributes of all
                                                                      FCoE adapters on the
                                                                      system.
storage.san.fcoe                                    reset             Perform LIP (Loop
                                                                      Initiation Primitive)
                                                                      Reset to a given FCoE
                                                                      adapter on the system.
storage.san.fcoe.stats                              get               Get statistics for a given
                                                                      FCoE adapter, or all FCoE
                                                                      adapters on the system.
storage.san.iscsi                                   list              List attributes of all
                                                                      Software iSCSI adapters on
                                                                      the system.
storage.san.iscsi.stats                             get               Get statistics for
                                                                      Software iSCSI adapter.
storage.san.sas                                     list              List all SAS IO Device
                                                                      Management devices.
storage.san.sas                                     reset             Perform SAS Reset
storage.san.sas.stats                               get               List Stats for given
                                                                      device, or all devices.
storage.vflash.device                               list              List vflash SSD devices.
storage.vflash.module                               get               Get vflash module info.
storage.vflash.module                               list              List vflash modules.
storage.vflash.module.stats                         get               Get vflash module
                                                                      statistics
storage.vmfs.extent                                 list              List the VMFS extents
                                                                      available on the host.
storage.vmfs.host                                   list              List hosts accessing a
                                                                      particular VMFS Volume.
storage.vmfs.lockmode                               list              List the on-disk critical
                                                                      section locking mode for
                                                                      VMFS volumes available on
                                                                      this host.
storage.vmfs.lockmode                               set               Update the on-disk
                                                                      critical section locking
                                                                      mode for a particular VMFS
                                                                      Volume.
storage.vmfs.pbcache                                get               Get VMFS Pointer Block
                                                                      cache statistics.
storage.vmfs.pbcache                                reset             Reset the VMFS Pointer
                                                                      Block cache statistics.
storage.vmfs.reclaim.config                         get               Get space reclamation
                                                                      configuration parameters
storage.vmfs.reclaim.config                         set               Set space reclamation
                                                                      configuration parameters
storage.vmfs.snapshot.extent                        list              List extents of unresolved
                                                                      snapshots/replicas of VMFS
                                                                      volume.
storage.vmfs.snapshot                               list              List unresolved
                                                                      snapshots/replicas of VMFS
                                                                      volume.
storage.vmfs.snapshot                               mount             Mount a snapshot/replica
                                                                      of a VMFS volume.
storage.vmfs.snapshot                               resignature       Resignature a
                                                                      snapshot/replica of a VMFS
                                                                      volume.
storage.vmfs                                        unmap             Reclaim the space by
                                                                      unmapping free blocks from
                                                                      VMFS Volume
storage.vmfs                                        upgrade           Upgrade a VMFS3 volume to
                                                                      VMFS5.
storage.vvol.daemon                                 unbindall         Unbind all Virtual Volumes
                                                                      from all VASA Providers
                                                                      known to this host.
storage.vvol.nvme                                   discover          Performs a rescan of vVol
                                                                      NVMe subsystems.
storage.vvol.nvme.info                              get               Get vVol NVMe host
                                                                      information.
storage.vvol.nvme.info                              set               Set vVol NVMe host
                                                                      information.
storage.vvol.protocolendpoint                       list              List the VVol Protocol
                                                                      EndPoints currently known
                                                                      to this host.
storage.vvol.protocolendpoint                       startforceunbind  Unbind all Virtual Volumes
                                                                      on the PE with zero open
                                                                      handle count.
storage.vvol.stats                                  add               Add entity for stats
                                                                      tracking
storage.vvol.stats                                  disable           Disable stats for complete
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.stats                                  enable            Enable stats for complete
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.stats                                  get               Get stats for given stats
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.stats                                  list              List all supported stats
storage.vvol.stats                                  remove            Remove tracked entity
storage.vvol.stats                                  reset             Reset stats for given
                                                                      namespace
storage.vvol.storagearray.container                 list              List VVol containers for
                                                                      storage arrays known to
                                                                      this host.
storage.vvol.storagearray                           list              VVol VASA Storage Array
storage.vvol.storagearray.protocolendpoint          list              List Protocol Endpoints
                                                                      for storage arrays known
                                                                      to this host.
storage.vvol.storagecontainer.abandonedvvol         scan              Scans the specified
                                                                      storage container for
                                                                      abandoned VVols.
storage.vvol.storagecontainer                       list              List VVol storage
                                                                      containers known to this
                                                                      host.
storage.vvol.vasacontext                            get               Get the VVol VASA Context
                                                                      (vCenter UUID).
storage.vvol.vasaprovider                           list              List the VASA Providers
                                                                      registered on this host.
storage.vvol.virtualvolume                          unmap             Reclaim the space by
                                                                      unmapping free blocks from
                                                                      VMFS config volume.
storage.vvol.vmstats                                get               Get the VVol information
                                                                      and statistics for a
                                                                      specific virtual machine.
system.account                                      add               Create a new local user
                                                                      account.
system.account                                      list              List local user accounts.
system.account                                      remove            Remove an existing local
                                                                      user account.
system.account                                      set               Modify an existing local
                                                                      user account.
system.auditrecords                                 get               Audit record configuration
                                                                      settings.
system.auditrecords.local                           disable           Disable audit record
                                                                      storage.
system.auditrecords.local                           enable            Enable audit record
                                                                      storage.
system.auditrecords.local                           set               Set audit record storage
                                                                      configuration options.
system.auditrecords.remote                          disable           Disable transmitting audit
                                                                      records to remote hosts.
system.auditrecords.remote                          enable            Enable transmitting audit
                                                                      records to remote hosts.
system.boot.device                                  get               Get the systems boot
                                                                      device.
system.clock                                        get               Display the current system
                                                                      clock parameters.
system.clock                                        set               Set system clock
                                                                      parameters.
system.coredump.file                                add               Create a VMkernel Dump
                                                                      VMFS file for this system.
system.coredump.file                                get               Get the dump file path.
                                                                      This command will print
                                                                      the path to the active
                                                                      and/or configured VMFS
                                                                      Dump File.
system.coredump.file                                list              List the active and
                                                                      configured VMFS Diagnostic
                                                                      Files.
system.coredump.file                                remove            Remove a VMkernel Dump
                                                                      VMFS file from this
                                                                      system.
system.coredump.file                                set               Set the active and
                                                                      configured VMkernel Dump
                                                                      VMFS file for this system.
system.coredump.network                             check             Check the status of the
                                                                      configured network dump
                                                                      server
system.coredump.network                             get               Get the currently
                                                                      configured parameters for
                                                                      network coredump, if
                                                                      enabled.
system.coredump.network                             set               Set the parameters used
                                                                      for network core dump
system.coredump.partition                           get               Get one of the dump
                                                                      partition configured
                                                                      values. This command will
                                                                      print either the active
                                                                      dump partition or the
                                                                      configured dump partition
                                                                      depending on the flags
                                                                      passed.
system.coredump.partition                           list              List all of the partitions
                                                                      on the system that have a
                                                                      partition type matching
                                                                      the VMware Core partition
                                                                      type. Also indicate which
                                                                      partition, if any, is
                                                                      being used as the system's
                                                                      dump partition and which
                                                                      is configured to be used
                                                                      at next boot.
system.coredump.partition                           set               Set the specific VMkernel
                                                                      dump partition for this
                                                                      system. This will
                                                                      configure the dump
                                                                      partition for the next
                                                                      boot. This command will
                                                                      change the active dump
                                                                      partition to the partition
                                                                      specified.
system.entropyd                                     get               Get configuration settings
                                                                      of entropyd.
system.entropyd                                     set               Set the entropyd config
                                                                      parameters.
system.health.report                                get               Displays one or more
                                                                      health reports
system.health.report                                list              List all the health
                                                                      reports currently
                                                                      generated.
system.hostname                                     get               Get the host, domain or
                                                                      fully qualified name of
                                                                      the ESX host.
system.hostname                                     set               This command allows the
                                                                      user to set the hostname,
                                                                      domain name or fully
                                                                      qualified domain name of
                                                                      the ESX host.
system.maintenanceMode                              get               Get the maintenance mode
                                                                      state of the system.
system.maintenanceMode                              set               Enable or disable the
                                                                      maintenance mode of the
                                                                      system.
system.module                                       get               Show information for a
                                                                      VMkernel module.
system.module                                       list              List the VMkernel modules
                                                                      that the system knows
                                                                      about.
system.module                                       load              Load a VMkernel module
                                                                      with the given name if it
                                                                      is enabled. If the module
                                                                      is disabled then the use
                                                                      of --force is required to
                                                                      load the module.
system.module.parameters                            clear             Clear the load time
                                                                      parameters for a given
                                                                      VMkernel module.
system.module.parameters                            copy              Copy the load time
                                                                      parameters from one
                                                                      VMkernel module to
                                                                      another.
system.module.parameters                            list              List the parameters, a
                                                                      descriptions of each
                                                                      parameter supported for a
                                                                      given module name and the
                                                                      user defined value for
                                                                      each parameter.
system.module.parameters                            set               Set the load time
                                                                      parameters for the given
                                                                      VMkernel module.
system.module                                       set               Allow enabling and
                                                                      disabling of a VMkernel
                                                                      module.
system.ntp.config                                   get               Display Network Time
                                                                      Protocol configuration.
system.ntp                                          get               Display Network Time
                                                                      Protocol configuration
system.ntp                                          set               Configures the ESX Network
                                                                      Time Protocol agent.
system.ntp.stats                                    get               Report operational state
                                                                      of Network Time Protocol
                                                                      Daemon
system.ntp                                          test              Verify operational status
                                                                      of ESX NTP service.
system.partialMaintenanceMode                       list              Get the partial
                                                                      maintenance mode state of
                                                                      the system.
system.partialMaintenanceMode                       set               Change partial maintenance
                                                                      mode.
system.permission                                   list              List permissions defined
                                                                      on the host.
system.permission                                   set               Set permission for a user
                                                                      or group.
system.permission                                   unset             Remove permission for a
                                                                      user or group.
system.process                                      list              List the VMkernel
                                                                      UserWorld processes
                                                                      currently on the host.
system.process.stats.load                           get               System load average over
                                                                      the last 1, 5 and 15
                                                                      minutes.
system.process.stats.running                        get               Number of currently
                                                                      running processes.
system.ptp                                          get               Display Precision Time
                                                                      Protocol configuration
system.ptp                                          set               Configures the ESX
                                                                      Precision Time Protocol
                                                                      agent.
system.ptp.stats                                    get               Report operational state
                                                                      of Precision Time Protocol
                                                                      Daemon
system.ptp                                          test              Verify operational status
                                                                      of ESX PTP service.
system.secpolicy.domain                             list              List the enforcement level
                                                                      for each domain.
system.secpolicy.domain                             set               Set the enforcement level
                                                                      for a domain in the
                                                                      system. Any option
                                                                      specified here is not
                                                                      persistent and will not
                                                                      survive a reboot of the
                                                                      system.
system.security.certificatestore                    add               Add a new CA certificate
                                                                      to the CA certificate
                                                                      store.
system.security.certificatestore                    list              List all certificates in
                                                                      the CA certificate store.
system.security.certificatestore                    remove            Remove a certificate from
                                                                      the CA certificate store.
system.security.fips140.ssh                         get               Get FIPS140 mode of ssh.
system.security.fips140.ssh                         set               Set FIPS140 mode of ssh.
system.security.keypersistence                      disable           Disable key persistence.
system.security.keypersistence                      enable            Enable key persistence.
system.security.keypersistence                      get               Get the status of key
                                                                      persistence.
system.settings.advanced                            add               Add a user defined
                                                                      advanced option to the
                                                                      /UserVars/ advanced option
                                                                      tree.
system.settings.advanced                            list              List the advanced options
                                                                      available from the
                                                                      VMkernel.
system.settings.advanced                            remove            Remove a user defined
                                                                      advanced option from the
                                                                      /UserVars/ advanced option
                                                                      tree.
system.settings.advanced                            set               Set the value of an
                                                                      advanced option.
system.settings.encryption                          get               Get the encryption mode
                                                                      and policy.
system.settings.encryption.recovery                 list              List recovery keys.
system.settings.encryption.recovery                 rotate            Rotate the recover key.
system.settings.encryption                          set               Set the encryption mode
                                                                      and policy.
system.settings.gueststore.repository               get               Get GuestStore repository.
system.settings.gueststore.repository               set               Set or clear GuestStore
                                                                      repository.
system.settings.kernel                              list              List VMkernel kernel
                                                                      settings.
system.settings.kernel                              set               Set a VMKernel setting.
system.settings.keyboard.layout                     get               Get the keyboard layout
system.settings.keyboard.layout                     list              List the keyboard layout
system.settings.keyboard.layout                     set               Set the keyboard layout
system.shutdown                                     poweroff          Power off the system. The
                                                                      host must be in
                                                                      maintenance mode.
system.shutdown                                     reboot            Reboot the system. The
                                                                      host must be in
                                                                      maintenance mode.
system.slp                                          get               Get SLP Agent
                                                                      configuration.
system.slp                                          search            Perform SLP search for
                                                                      neighboring services
system.slp                                          set               Configure ESX SLP agent.
system.slp.stats                                    get               Report operational state
                                                                      of Service Location
                                                                      Protocol Daemon
system.snmp                                         get               Get SNMP Agent
                                                                      configuration
system.snmp                                         hash              Generate localized hash
                                                                      values based on this
                                                                      agents snmp engine id.
system.snmp                                         set               This command allows the
                                                                      user to set up ESX SNMP
                                                                      agent.
system.snmp                                         test              Verify ESX SNMP
                                                                      notifications can be
                                                                      delivered to target
                                                                      destinations.
system.ssh.client.config                            list              List SSH client's
                                                                      configuration settings.
system.ssh.client.config                            set               Set SSH client
                                                                      configuration.
system.ssh.key                                      add               Add new SSH authorized
                                                                      keys.
system.ssh.key                                      list              List SSH authorized keys.
system.ssh.key                                      remove            Remove SSH authorized
                                                                      keys.
system.ssh.server.config                            list              List SSH server's
                                                                      configuration settings.
system.ssh.server.config                            set               Set SSH server
                                                                      configuration.
system.ssh.version                                  get               Show the version of SSH.
system.stats.installtime                            get               Display the date and time
                                                                      when this system was first
                                                                      installed. Value will not
                                                                      change on subsequent
                                                                      updates.
system.stats.uptime                                 get               Display the number of
                                                                      microseconds the system
                                                                      has been running.
system.syslog.config                                get               Show the current global
                                                                      configuration values.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      add               Add a log filter.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      get               Show the current log
                                                                      filter configuration
                                                                      values.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      list              Show the added log
                                                                      filters.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      remove            Remove a log filter.
system.syslog.config.logfilter                      set               Set log filtering
                                                                      configuration options.
system.syslog.config.logger                         list              Show the currently
                                                                      configured sub-loggers.
system.syslog.config.logger                         set               Set configuration options
                                                                      for a specific sub-logger.
system.syslog.config                                set               Set syslog daemon
                                                                      configuration options.
system.syslog                                       mark              Issue a message to all
                                                                      outputs.
system.syslog                                       reload            Reload the log daemon to
                                                                      apply any new
                                                                      configuration options.
system.tierdevice                                   create            Create a new tier device
                                                                      partition.
system.tierdevice                                   delete            Delete an already present
                                                                      tier device partition.
system.tierdevice                                   list              List all SSDs with a tier
                                                                      device partition.
system.time                                         get               Display the current system
                                                                      time.
system.time                                         set               Set the system clock time.
                                                                      Any missing parameters
                                                                      will default to the
                                                                      current time
system.tls.client                                   get               Get TLS client profile
                                                                      name and values.
system.tls.client                                   set               Set TLS client profile
                                                                      name and values. The
                                                                      system must be rebooted
                                                                      for the new configuration
                                                                      to take effect.
system.tls.server                                   get               Get TLS server profile
                                                                      name and values.
system.tls.server                                   set               Set TLS server profile
                                                                      name and values. The
                                                                      system must be rebooted
                                                                      for the new configuration
                                                                      to take effect.
system.uuid                                         get               Get the system UUID.
system.version                                      get               Display the product name,
                                                                      version and build
                                                                      information.
system.visorfs                                      get               Obtain status information
                                                                      on the memory filesystem
                                                                      as a whole.
system.visorfs.ramdisk                              add               Add a new Visorfs RAM disk
                                                                      to the ESXi Host and mount
                                                                      it.
system.visorfs.ramdisk                              list              List the RAM disks used by
                                                                      the host.
system.visorfs.ramdisk                              remove            Remove a Visorfs RAM disk
                                                                      from the ESXi Host.
system.visorfs.tardisk                              list              List the tardisks used by
                                                                      the host.
system.wbem                                         get               Display WBEM Agent
                                                                      configuration.
system.wbem.provider                                list              Display WBEM provider
                                                                      configuration.
system.wbem.provider                                set               This command is used to
                                                                      manage ESX CIMOM
                                                                      providers.
system.wbem                                         set               This command allows the
                                                                      user to set up ESX CIMOM
                                                                      agent.
system.welcomemsg                                   get               Get the Welcome Message
                                                                      for DCUI.
system.welcomemsg                                   set               Set the welcome message
                                                                      string.
vm.appinfo                                          get               Get the state of appinfo
                                                                      component on the ESXi
                                                                      host.
vm.appinfo                                          set               Modify the appinfo
                                                                      component on the ESXi
                                                                      host.
vm.process                                          kill              Used to forcibly kill
                                                                      Virtual Machines that are
                                                                      stuck and not responding
                                                                      to normal stop operations.
vm.process                                          list              List the virtual machines
                                                                      on this system. This
                                                                      command currently will
                                                                      only list running VMs on
                                                                      the system.
vsan.cluster                                        get               Get information about the
                                                                      vSAN cluster that this
                                                                      host is joined to.
vsan.cluster                                        join              Join the host to a vSAN
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.cluster                                        leave             Leave the vSAN cluster the
                                                                      host is currently joined
                                                                      to.
vsan.cluster                                        list              Get information about the
                                                                      vSAN clusters that this
                                                                      host is joined to.
vsan.cluster                                        new               Create a vSAN cluster with
                                                                      current host joined. A
                                                                      random sub-cluster UUID
                                                                      will be generated.
vsan.cluster.preferredfaultdomain                   get               Get the preferred fault
                                                                      domain for a stretched
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.cluster.preferredfaultdomain                   list              List the preferred fault
                                                                      domain for all attached
                                                                      stretched clusters.
vsan.cluster.preferredfaultdomain                   set               Set the preferred fault
                                                                      domain for a stretched
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.cluster                                        restore           Restore the persisted vSAN
                                                                      cluster configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           add               Add a unicast agent to the
                                                                      vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           clear             Removes all unicast agents
                                                                      in the vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           list              List all unicast agents in
                                                                      the vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cluster.unicastagent                           remove            Remove a unicast agent
                                                                      from the vSAN cluster
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.cmmds.timemachine                              get               Get vSAN CMMDS time
                                                                      machine configuration.
vsan.cmmds.timemachine                              set               Configure vSAN CMMDS time
                                                                      machine.
vsan.datastore                                      add               Add a new datastore to the
                                                                      vSAN cluster. This
                                                                      operation may be used to
                                                                      add either a new local
                                                                      datastore or a remote
                                                                      datastore. Adding local
                                                                      datastore is only allowed
                                                                      if vSAN is enabled on the
                                                                      host. In general, add
                                                                      should be done at cluster
                                                                      level. Across a vSAN
                                                                      cluster vSAN datastores
                                                                      should be in sync.
vsan.datastore                                      clear             Remove all but the default
                                                                      datastore from the vSAN
                                                                      cluster. This operation is
                                                                      only allowed if vSAN is
                                                                      enabled on the host. In
                                                                      general, clear should be
                                                                      done at cluster level.
                                                                      Across a vSAN cluster vSAN
                                                                      datastores should be in
                                                                      sync.
vsan.datastore                                      list              List datastores in the
                                                                      vSAN cluster.
vsan.datastore.name                                 get               Get vSAN datastore name.
vsan.datastore.name                                 set               Configure vSAN datastore
                                                                      name. In general, rename
                                                                      should always be done at
                                                                      cluster level. Across a
                                                                      vSAN cluster vSAN
                                                                      datastore name should be
                                                                      in sync.
vsan.datastore                                      remove            Remove a datastore from
                                                                      the vSAN cluster. This
                                                                      operation is only allowed
                                                                      if vSAN is enabled on the
                                                                      host. In general, remove
                                                                      should be done at cluster
                                                                      level. Across a vSAN
                                                                      cluster vSAN datastores
                                                                      should be in sync.
vsan.debug.advcfg                                   list              List all advanced
                                                                      configuration options with
                                                                      non-default values.
vsan.debug.controller                               list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about all vSAN disk
                                                                      controllers (output may
                                                                      change between releases)
vsan.debug.disk                                     list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about all vSAN disks in
                                                                      the cluster.
vsan.debug.disk                                     overview          Print overview information
                                                                      about all vSAN disks in
                                                                      the cluster.
vsan.debug.disk.summary                             get               Print summary information
                                                                      about all vSAN disks in
                                                                      the cluster.
vsan.debug.evacuation                               precheck          Examine what it takes if
                                                                      an entity (disk group or
                                                                      host) is evacuated in
                                                                      various modes (Action).
                                                                      The result is accurate
                                                                      when all hosts in the vSAN
                                                                      cluster are of the same
                                                                      version and have the same
                                                                      disk format.
vsan.debug.limit                                    get               Print summary information
                                                                      about vSAN limits (output
                                                                      may change between
                                                                      releases)
vsan.debug.memory                                   list              Print both userworld and
                                                                      kernel memory consumptions
                                                                      of vSAN.
vsan.debug.mob                                      start             Start vSAN Managed Object
                                                                      Browser Service.
vsan.debug.mob                                      status            Query vSAN Managed Object
                                                                      Browser Service is running
                                                                      or not.
vsan.debug.mob                                      stop              Stop vSAN Managed Object
                                                                      Browser Service.
vsan.debug.object.health.summary                    get               Print health summary
                                                                      information about all vSAN
                                                                      objects in the cluster
                                                                      (output may change between
                                                                      releases)
vsan.debug.object                                   list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about vSAN objects in the
                                                                      cluster. This command
                                                                      would only show 100
                                                                      objects at most by
                                                                      default.
vsan.debug.object                                   overview          Print overview information
                                                                      about all vSAN objects in
                                                                      the cluster. This command
                                                                      would only show 100
                                                                      objects at most by
                                                                      default.
vsan.debug.resync                                   list              Print detailed information
                                                                      about vSAN resyncing
                                                                      objects (output may change
                                                                      between releases)
vsan.debug.resync.summary                           get               Print summary information
                                                                      about vSAN resyncing
                                                                      objects (output may change
                                                                      between releases)
vsan.debug.vmdk                                     list              Print summary information
                                                                      about VMDKs on local vSAN
                                                                      datastore (output may
                                                                      change between releases)
vsan.dedupstore.distribution                        get               Get the dedup store
                                                                      distribution info of vSAN
                                                                      ESA (Express Storage
                                                                      Architecture) cluster.
vsan.dedupstore                                     get               Get vSAN ESA dedup store
                                                                      view.
vsan.encryption.cert                                get               Get encryption KMS server
                                                                      certificate contents.
vsan.encryption.cert.path                           list              List encryption
                                                                      certificate file paths.
vsan.encryption.hostkey                             get               Get host key from keycache
                                                                      used for vSAN encryption.
vsan.encryption.info                                get               Get vSAN encryption
                                                                      infomation.
vsan.encryption.kms                                 list              List the KMS
                                                                      configurations used for
                                                                      vSAN encryption.
vsan.faultdomain                                    get               Get the fault domain name
                                                                      for this host.
vsan.faultdomain                                    reset             Reset Host fault domain to
                                                                      default value
vsan.faultdomain                                    set               Set the fault domain for
                                                                      this host
vsan.hardware.vcg                                   add               Map unidentified vSAN
                                                                      hardware device with VCG
                                                                      ID.
vsan.hardware.vcg                                   get               Get the vSAN VCG ID for a
                                                                      vSAN hardware device.
                                                                      Output is VCG ID while
                                                                      "N/A" means device ID is
                                                                      not mapped.
vsan.health.cluster                                 get               Get a specific health
                                                                      check status and its
                                                                      details
vsan.health.cluster                                 list              List a cluster wide health
                                                                      check across all types of
                                                                      health checks
vsan.iscsi.defaultconfig                            get               Get default values for
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI Target
                                                                      configurations.
vsan.iscsi.defaultconfig                            set               Set default values for
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI Target
                                                                      configurations.
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               create            Create vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      home object. Once created,
                                                                      the home object will be
                                                                      available for all the
                                                                      hosts in vSAN cluster.
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI target home
                                                                      object should be created
                                                                      only once for the vSAN
                                                                      cluster.
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               delete            Delete vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      home object. This
                                                                      operation will destroy all
                                                                      vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      configuration
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               get               Get status for the vSAN
                                                                      iSCSI target home object
vsan.iscsi.homeobject                               set               Update configuration for
                                                                      the vSAN iSCSI target home
                                                                      object
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           add               Add a new initiator group.
                                                                      An initiator group is a
                                                                      collection of iSCSI
                                                                      initiator hosts. A LUN can
                                                                      be exposed to multiple
                                                                      initiators via initiator
                                                                      group.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           get               Get initiator group
                                                                      properties.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup.initiator                 add               Add new initiator iSCSI
                                                                      names to the vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      initiator group.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup.initiator                 remove            Remove initiator iSCSI
                                                                      names from the vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      initiator group.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           list              Get the list of initiator
                                                                      groups.
vsan.iscsi.initiatorgroup                           remove            Remove an initiator group.
                                                                      Group should be empty. If
                                                                      you want to remove non-
                                                                      empty group use --force
                                                                      option.
vsan.iscsi.status                                   get               Gets current status
                                                                      (Enabled or Disabled).
vsan.iscsi.status                                   set               Enable or disable iSCSI
                                                                      target support, query
                                                                      status
vsan.iscsi.target                                   add               Add a new vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      target.
vsan.iscsi.target                                   get               Get configuration for vSAN
                                                                      iSCSI target
vsan.iscsi.target                                   list              List vSAN iSCSI targets.
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               add               Add a new vSAN iSCSI LUN
                                                                      to specified target
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               get               Get configuration for vSAN
                                                                      iSCSI LUN
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               list              List vSAN iSCSI LUNs in
                                                                      specified target.
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               remove            Remove a vSAN iSCSI LUN
                                                                      from specified target.
vsan.iscsi.target.lun                               set               Update configuration for
                                                                      given vSAN iSCSI target
                                                                      LUN.
vsan.iscsi.target                                   remove            Remove a vSAN iSCSI
                                                                      target.
vsan.iscsi.target                                   set               Update configuration of
                                                                      the given iSCSI target.
vsan.maintenancemode                                cancel            Cancel an in-progress vSAN
                                                                      maintenance mode
                                                                      operation.The command is
                                                                      not used for exit host
                                                                      maintenance mode. Please
                                                                      run esxcli system
                                                                      maintenanceMode set -e 0
                                                                      to exit host maintenance
                                                                      mode
vsan.network                                        clear             Clear the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ip                                     add               Add an IP interface to the
                                                                      vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ip                                     remove            Remove an IP interface
                                                                      from the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ip                                     set               Reconfigure an IP
                                                                      interface in the vSAN
                                                                      network configuration.
vsan.network.ipv4                                   add               Add an IP interface to the
                                                                      vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ipv4                                   remove            Remove an IP interface
                                                                      from the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network.ipv4                                   set               Reconfigure an IP
                                                                      interface in the vSAN
                                                                      network configuration.
vsan.network                                        list              List the network
                                                                      configuration currently in
                                                                      use by vSAN.
vsan.network                                        remove            Remove an interface from
                                                                      the vSAN network
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.network                                        restore           Restore the persisted vSAN
                                                                      network configuration.
vsan.network.security                               get               Get vSAN network security
                                                                      configurations for a
                                                                      subcluster.
vsan.network.security                               list              List vSAN network security
                                                                      configurations.
vsan.network.security                               set               Configure vSAN network
                                                                      security settings for a
                                                                      subcluster.
vsan.perf.diagnostic                                get               Gets current status about
                                                                      diagnostic mode.
vsan.perf.diagnostic                                set               Set vSAN diagnostic mode
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.perf                                           get               Gets current status
                                                                      (Enabled or Disabled).
vsan.perf                                           set               Set vSAN performance
                                                                      service configuration.
vsan.policy                                         cleardefault      Clear default vSAN storage
                                                                      policy values.
vsan.policy                                         getdefault        Get default vSAN storage
                                                                      policy values.
vsan.policy                                         setdefault        Set default vSAN storage
                                                                      policy values.
vsan.resync.bandwidth                               get               Get information about vSAN
                                                                      resync bandwidth in Mbps
                                                                      for the disk group with
                                                                      the heaviest resync
                                                                      workload.
vsan.resync.throttle                                get               Get information about vSAN
                                                                      resync throttling
vsan.resync.throttle                                set               Configure vSAN resync
                                                                      throttling
vsan.storage                                        add               Add physical disk for vSAN
                                                                      usage.
vsan.storage.automode                               get                Get status of storage
                                                                      auto claim mode.
vsan.storage.automode                               set               Configure storage auto
                                                                      claim mode
vsan.storage.diskgroup                              mount             Mount a vSAN disk or disk
                                                                      group.
vsan.storage.diskgroup                              rebuild           Rebuild vSAN diskgroup.
vsan.storage.diskgroup                              unmount           Unmount vSAN disk or disk
                                                                      group.
vsan.storage                                        list              List vSAN storage
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.storage                                        remove            Remove physical disks from
                                                                      vSAN disk groups.
vsan.storage.tag                                    add               Add a vSAN storage tag.
vsan.storage.tag                                    remove            Remove a vSAN storage tag.
vsan.storagepool                                    add               Add physical disk for vSAN
                                                                      usage.
vsan.storagepool                                    list              List vSAN storage pool
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.storagepool                                    mount             Mount vSAN disk from
                                                                      storage pool.
vsan.storagepool                                    rebuild           Rebuild vSAN storage pool
                                                                      disks.
vsan.storagepool                                    remove            Remove physical disk from
                                                                      storage pool usage.
                                                                      Exactly one of --disk or
                                                                      --uuid param is required.
vsan.storagepool                                    unmount           Unmount vSAN disk from
                                                                      storage pool.
vsan.trace                                          get               Get the vSAN tracing
                                                                      configuration.
vsan.trace                                          set               Configure vSAN trace.
                                                                      Please note: This command
                                                                      is not thread safe.
vsan.vdx                                            attach            Attach a virtual disk from
                                                                      the specified disk
                                                                      backend.
vsan.vdx                                            create            Create virtual disk to
                                                                      provide storage.
vsan.vdx                                            delete            Delete the backend for the
                                                                      virtual disk.
vsan.vdx                                            detach            Detach a previously
                                                                      attached virtual disk.
vsan.vdx                                            list              List all the existing
                                                                      virtual disks.
[root@ec6rr0u19:~]  esxcli network nic list


The essential PowerShell commands cheat sheet
In addition to the 5 essential commands above, we’ve compiled a list of other commonly used commands. Here is the essential Windows PowerShell commands cheat sheet:

Command	Description
Get-Service	Retrieve information about services
Get-Process	Retrieve information about processes
Get-EventLog	Retrieve information from event logs
Set-ExecutionPolicy	Modify the script execution policy
Test-Connection	Test the connectivity to a remote computer
Out-File	Write PowerShell output to a file
Get-Help	Display information about concepts and commands
Get-History	Retrieve recent commands in your current session
Get-Command	Retrieve all available PowerShell commands
ConvertTo-HTML	Create an HTML file from PowerShell output
Copy-Item	Copy a file to a specific location
Clear-History	Clear entries from your command history
Add-History	Add entries to your command history
Format-Table	Format PowerShell output as a table
Format-List	Format PowerShell output as a list
Clear-Content	Retain an item while deleting the contents of that item
Checkpoint-Computer	Set a restore point on your machine
ForEach-Object	Perform an operation on each item in a specified group
Where-Object	Select objects with a certain property  
Select-Object	Select specific properties of an object or group of objects
Out-File	Create a local file to save cmdlet output
Write-Progress	Display a progress bar in a PowerShell window
Debug-Process	Attach a debugger to a running process
Get-WinEvent	Display Windows event logs
Wait-Job	Suppress the command prompt until background jobs finish running

PowerShell Commands List
Here are 25 basic PowerShell commands:
Command name	Alias	Description
Set-Location	cd, chdir, sl	Sets the current working location to a specified location.
Get-Content	cat, gc, type	Gets the content of the item at the specified location.
Add-Content	ac	Adds content to the specified items, such as adding words to a file.
Set-Content	sc	Writes or replaces the content in an item with new content.
Copy-Item	copy, cp, cpi	Copies an item from one location to another.
Remove-Item	del, erase, rd, ri, rm, rmdir	Deletes the specified items.
Move-Item	mi, move, mv	Moves an item from one location to another.
Set-Item	si	Changes the value of an item to the value specified in the command.
New-Item	ni	Creates a new item.
Start-Job	sajb	Starts a Windows PowerShell background job.
Compare-Object	compare, dif	Compares two sets of objects.
Group-Object	group	Groups objects that contain the same value for specified properties.
Invoke-WebRequest	curl, iwr, wget	Gets content from a web page on the Internet.
Measure-Object	measure	Calculates the numeric properties of objects, and the characters, words, and lines in string objects, such as files …
Resolve-Path	rvpa	Resolves the wildcard characters in a path, and displays the path contents.
Resume-Job	rujb	Restarts a suspended job
Set-Variable	set, sv	Sets the value of a variable. Creates the variable if one with the requested name does not exist.
Show-Command	shcm	Creates Windows PowerShell commands in a graphical command window.
Sort-Object	sort	Sorts objects by property values.
Start-Service	sasv	Starts one or more stopped services.
Start-Process	saps, start	Starts one or more processes on the local computer.
Suspend-Job	sujb	Temporarily stops workflow jobs.
Wait-Job	wjb	Suppresses the command prompt until one or all of the Windows PowerShell background jobs running in the session are …
Where-Object	?, where	Selects objects from a collection based on their property values.
Write-Output	echo, write	Sends the specified objects to the next command in the pipeline. If the command is the last command in the pipeline,…

We can scratch partition through GUI mode only in advanced setting by setting the below path.
/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U23

/vmfs/volumes/67382ebc-23318a4d-71e3-6cfe5484a3d8/Scratch_Partition/C6HADRS003/.locker-EC6VM001
/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U23
 

and done the hardening script from wb5 jump server through help form logeshwaran.
Pushed the latest updetes through central repo from management console from logeshwaran help.

S5HSANSW001
fc1/6       100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/7       100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/8       100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/21      100    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
 
S5HSANSW002
fc1/6       200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/7       200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/8       200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge
fc1/21      200    auto   on      up           swl   F      32     --       edge


10.250.26.17,10.250.26.18,172.20.25.231,172.26.208.10,172.28.135.37,10.248.21.57

vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/OVF/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP.ovf" "vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP_new1




Src:W5HFP001-172.18.61.16-->Dest:e5hrr2u23.myl.com-172.29.127.150

Cannot complete the configuration of the vSphere HA agent on the host. "Applying HA VIBs on the cluster encountered a failure". 
Failed installing HA component on the host: host-574414 An error occurred while downloading depot metadata from 
http://WB5VC001.myl.com:9084/vum/repository/hostupdate/vmw/metadata-143.zip.

/vmfs/volumes/67becb46-1355ab31-371a-303ea71fc864

/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U21

faced HA Error VIB files are missiing in hosts created new cluster and disconnected from old cluster and added freshly then the vib files are available in esxi hosts.


DELL POWEREDGE 760 Model Drivers
Firmware is running with N-2 version need to upgrade to N-1 version 7.10.90.00-A00
Bios - running with N-2 need to upgrade to N-1 version as 2.35
Intel Net Adapters - Current Network Adapter driver Firmware Version : 22.5.7, A00
Desired Network Adapter driver Firmware Version : 23.0.8, A00
FC adapter currently running with 03.07.23 need to upgrade with 03.08.24
Perc Controller - currently running with 8.8.0.0.18-26 need to upgrade with 8.8.0.0.18-32 - A07

CHG0180541 - e5hrr2u25
CHG0180537 - e5hrr2u23
CHG0180524 - e5hrr2u21
CHG0180519 - e5hrr2u19

Emulex FC Adapter no need to configure boot target just need to enable Boot from SAN.
Qlogic FC Adapter need to configure target detais on FC adapter target connection.

5H Site 4 ESXi Hosts Observation:
Summary: New Build Transition | CHG0180537 | Build to Run | ESXi || e5hrr2u23
Analysis and findings:
Hardware observation
>> The fiber channel version was lower version Kindly upgrade to latest 03.08.24
>>PERC H965i is in a lower version; kindly upgrade to N-1 version
>>Kindly add the host in the domain.
>> The license was in evaluation mode. Kindly check and upgrade
>> CI details were not added properly
>>Alerts configuration was in the OFF state. Kindly ON it.
>> All hosts, Management and vMotion network is connected to vDS as per standard should be in vSS
>> Hence assigning ticket back to build team
 
New Esxi build.

UEFI Boot Enable
TPM Disable 
FIrmware & IDRAC N-1
SAN Boot enable
Std passwd
NTP Configuration
IDRAC Alerts & SNMP Configuration

NTP Servers for Viatris:10.250.26.17,10.250.26.18,172.20.25.231,172.26.208.10,172.28.135.37,10.248.21.57

vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/OVF/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP.ovf" "vmb://172.29.127.150/5H-5HHADRS001-002-955-SSD-S5HSANSW001/GBL-W2K19STD-GEN-TMP_new1

Src:W5HFP001-172.18.61.16-->Dest:e5hrr2u23.myl.com-172.29.127.150

Cannot complete the configuration of the vSphere HA agent on the host. "Applying HA VIBs on the cluster encountered a failure". 
Failed installing HA component on the host: host-574414 An error occurred while downloading depot metadata from 
http://WB5VC001.myl.com:9084/vum/repository/hostupdate/vmw/metadata-143.zip.

/vmfs/volumes/67becb46-1355ab31-371a-303ea71fc864

/vmfs/volumes/67b703ac-e2c61d51-acfc-303ea71fc864/Scratch_Partition/5HHADRS001/.locker-E5HRR2U21

5H Asendis IDRAC & BIOS N-1 Version

7.10.90.00, A00-IDRAC
2.3.5-BIOS

Summary: New Build Transition | CHG0180537 | Build to Run | ESXi || e5hrr2u23
Analysis and findings:

Hardware observation
>> The fiber channel version was lower version Kindly upgrade to latest 03.08.24-Taken Care
>>PERC H965i is in a lower version; kindly upgrade to N-1 version-Taken Care
>>Kindly add the host in the domain.-Taken Care
>> The license was in evaluation mode. Kindly check and upgrade-Senthil wil take care.
>> CI details were not added properly
>>Alerts configuration was in the OFF state. Kindly ON it.-Taken Care
>> All hosts, Management and vMotion network is connected to vDS as per standard should be in vSS-Only 1physical adapters are there so we have configured under distributed switch.

e5hrr2u25.myl.com-Done
e5hrr2u23.myl.com-Done
e5hrr2u21.myl.com-Done
e5hrr2u19.myl.com-Done

HUN-5DKOM
IDRAC IP:10.6.177.11
Hostname:u5dpnbmep003	
			                                     Switch Ports		
Hostname	Make & Model	Serial Number	FOC2431L517	FOC2431L50Y	
e5drr15u18.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R750	BWTDKY3	Te1/0/1 	Te2/0/1	
e5drr15u20.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R750	CWTDKY3	Te1/0/2 	Te2/0/2 	
e5dr15u10.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R740	80YR6J3	Te1/0/3 	Te2/0/4 	
e5dr15u12.myl.com	DELL PowerEdge R740	70YR6J3	Te1/0/13 	Te2/0/13 	

e5dr15u30
e5dr15u32

IP Address Details: -
ESXi Host Name :  e5dr15u30
ESXi Management IP: 172.18.86.92
vMotion IP : 172.18.86.101
iSCSI IP:  172.18.86.95
CIMC IP: 172.18.86.98
- Server Name:  e5dr15u30
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078S

IP Address Details: -
ESXi Host Name :  e5dr15u32
ESXi Management IP: 172.18.86.93
vMotion IP : 172.18.86.102
iSCSI IP:  172.18.86.96
- Server Name:  e5dr15u32
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078Z

- Server Name:  e5dr15u30
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078S

- Server Name:  e5dr15u32
- Server Make: Cisco
- Server Model: Cisco UCSC-C240-M5
- Server Serial Number: WZP2714078Z

Esxi Default creds:
 "PASSW0RD" ("0" = numeric zero). For ESXi 6.7 the default root code is "P@ssw0rd" ("@" = at sign; "0" = numeric zero) or it is blank (that is, no password).

slmgr /upk to uninstall the key, 
and then use slmgr /ipk <your_product_key> and 
slmgr /ato to reactivate it. 

DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /RestoreHealth
DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /StartComponentCleanup
sfc /scannow
DISM /online /get-packages

208204316-DELL Case for 5D-KOM

"If you're adding existing NFS datastores to the new hosts just Mount the additional hosts-->action from the datastore.." 
Rescan the STORAGE.
Refresh the STORAGE.

22. What is the rsync command, and how do you use this command for synchronization?
The rsync command is used to synchronize and transfer the files in Linux. It synchronizes files between two local systems, directories, or a network. The basic rsync command contains the following:

rsync <options> <source> <destination>
For example, let’s synchronize between Documents and the Downloads directory. For this, you need to run the following command:

rsync -av ~/Documents ~/Downloads
If you want to go one step further, then you can use the below command:

rsync -avz --delete ~/Documents ~/Downloads

Linux interview questions:
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/linux-interview-questions/
 
tar -czvf jayesh.tar.gz files
tar -xzvf jayesh.tar.gz
 
net user m676098 /domain

 

 
